QuitSTART| QuitSTART Smoking-cessation app that allows moods and cravings for a cigarette to be recorded. QuitSTART is a product of Smokefree Teen (SfT)a smoking cessation resource for teens created by the Tobacco Control Research Branch at the National Cancer Institute in collaboration with tobacco control professionals and smoking cessation experts and with input from ex-smokers. Smoking-cessation app that allows the user to record moods and cravings for a cigarette. Tracks smoking-cessation performance in graphs and in a history list. Helps in the identification of factors that trigger the desire to smoke. Offers tips for moments when the temptation to smoke is strong. Offers virtual rewards for staying smokefree (from one day to one year). Created by the USA-based National Cancer Institute (NCI).
112 Iceland| 112 Iceland Allows a user to send a telephone message, text message, andGPS location to the emergency services in Iceland. Allows a user to send a telephone message, text message, andGPS location to the emergency services in Iceland. The user can select either oftwo languages (English or Icelandic) as the apps operating language. The GPS location sent will only be as precise as the users phone is able to deliver.
25 Tips to Surviving with Adult AD/HD by Maren Angelotti| 25 Tips to Surviving with Adult AD/HD by Maren Angelotti For adults with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (whether diagnosed or undiagnosed). For adults with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (whether diagnosed or undiagnosed). Offers 25 tips that aim to help identify learning difficulties. The writer of the app works with children and adults who experience difficulty learning.
5 things to do before I die| 5 things to do before I die Interactive app on Facebook, intended to raise awareness of end-of-life issues. Interactive app on Facebook, intended to raise awareness of end-of-life issues. Allows users to create a list of the activities that they would most like to do during their lives. The app offers five categories of activity: People Id like to meet; Places I'd like to visit; What Id like to learn; What Id like to start; and How Id like to be remembered. The list can be placed on the users wall for sharing with friends. Users can vote for their favourite lists made by other people. Once the five categories have been uploaded, users receive a message outlining five actions they should take before they die (including making a funeral plan; sharing end-of-life plans with loved ones; and writing a will). Requires Facebook log in.
About Herbs| About Herbs Contains the contents of 200-plus articles on herbs and complementary therapies. Contains the contents of 200-plus articles on herbs, food supplements, and complementary therapies, all held offline by the app. Describes the structure of each of the compounds, its uses, and any adverse effects and drug interactions. Illustrations included. Each article is in two versions; one for members of the public, and one for healthcare professionals. A search function operates by product name or by medical condition. Favourites can be saved. Updated weekly with new information. Content can be shared by emailing.
ActiveME| ActiveME Intended to help people with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) track and monitor their daily activity levels. Intended to help people with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) track and monitor their daily activity levels. A user picks from four activity grades, and can then record each personal activity (in terms of energy level) on a daily calendar and graph. The app analyses patterns in personal energy levels. Notes can be added in an Energy diary. Activity patterns can be reviewed, and standards set. Allows the user to develop a daily baseline of energy levels, suitable for increasing in regular steps. Weekly charts can be emailed in PDF (perhaps to a doctor, or to a carer).
Afa-MICI| Afa-MICI Provides information on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), dieticians and hospitals, and on the activities of France-based patient group, Association Francois Aupetit (AFA). Provides information on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), dieticians and hospitals, and on the activities ofFrance-based patient group, Association Francois Aupetit (AFA). Contains a lavatory finder, allowing the user to also input the location of facilities not on the existing database. Brings access to AFA forum posts.
AgaMatrix Diabetes Manager| AgaMatrix Diabetes Manager Diabetes management log. Diabetes management log. A user manually enters blood-glucose levels, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosage. Trend charts and colour-coded results can be customised for hypo-/hyperglycaemic limits, mealtime schedules, and target ranges, and tags can contextualise readings. Data can be emailed to carers and healthcare professionals. Subjects covered on built-in videos by dLife TV include healthy eating, lifestyle choices, and issues for other people living with diabetes. The app is also complementary to the Wavesense Jazz glucose meter (although the Jazz cannot yet synch with iPhone, a data cable is in development).
Aidsmap news| Aidsmap news Offers latest daily news on the topic of HIV/AIDS. Offers latest daily news on the topic of HIV/AIDS. Features reports on new findings and research in HIV treatment and prevention from around the world. Also covers key developments in hepatitis and tuberculosis.
airTEXT| airTEXT Information about current and forthcoming air pollution, pollen, ultraviolet levels, plus temperature, for Greater London, England. Details about current and forthcoming air pollution, pollen, ultraviolet levels, plus temperature, for Greater London, England. Each of these categories is rated from 1 (low) to 10 (high). The pollutants included in the daily assessment are nitrogen dioxide, ozone, and particulates. Temperatures given are maximum and minimum. The information refers to the current conditions on the day, and the conditions for the next two days. Users can specify which London borough they wish the information to refer to. The airTEXT service draws on regional air-quality forecasts derived from the activities of a European Space Agency (ESA) satellite, and localises the information by accessing data on London road-traffic levels, plus the conditions reported by local weather-monitoring stations from around the capital. Does not contain adverts.
AlcoDroid Alcohol Tracker| AlcoDroid Alcohol Tracker Alcohol consumption tracker and drinks diary intended to help a user change drinking habits. Alcohol consumption tracker and drinks diary intended to help a user change drinking habits. Drinking habits can be charted daily, weekly or monthly, with alcohol consumption statistics exported across the same time frames. A Drink presets facility allows drinks to be logged quickly. A maximum drinks level can be set. The app estimates blood-alcohol content (BAC) based on drinks logged, plots BAC development in a chart, and indicates when the legal limit (or zero) will be reached. Functions in metric, imperial and US units. Alcohol intake can be displayed per day or week, in grams, millilitres, or standard units (AU, CA, UK, US).
AliveCorECG| AliveCorECG The AliveCor Heart Monitor: Mobile ECG device that,provides individuals with the ability to track heart health anywhere, anytime at an affordable cost. The AliveCor Heart Monitor: Mobile ECG device that,provides individuals with the ability to track heart health anywhere, anytime at an affordable cost. The app is FDA approved and CE certified, meaning that it complies with EU legislation.
Alphabet Tracing| Alphabet Tracing Displays letters of the alphabet, words and numbers which children (including those with learning disabilities) can trace over, to help in learning to write. Displays letters of the alphabet, words and numbers which children (including those with learning disabilities) can trace over, to help in learning to write. Tracing worksheets can be created. Add-on purchases can be turned off.
Amber Homeless Helper| Amber Homeless Helper Helps people in the UK who are homeless (and their providers of social care) to locate resources within a given geographical radius of their phone. Helps people in the UK who are homeless (and their providers of social care) to locate resources within a given geographical radius of their phone. A user can search for the category of resources required (for instance, a day centre). Information about the resource (such as cost, opening hours, etc) is supplied. Navigation instructions and a map plot a route to the resource by bus, car, or on foot. The app relies on the principle that ownership of smart phones has become so ubiquitous that many (perhaps even most) people who are homeless own one.
Angry Birds| Angry Birds Game involving characters modelled on birds and pigs, and which is said to feature physics-based gameplay. Game involving characters modelled on birds and pigs, and which is said to feature physics-based gameplay. Each level in the game requires force, logic, and skill to solve.
Anti-stress Chromotherapy| Anti-stress Chromotherapy Chromotherapy app intended to reduce mental stress by demonstrating the therapeutic value of 256 shades of colour. Chromotherapy app intended to reduce mental stress by demonstrating the therapeutic value of 256 shades of colour.
Argus - Pedometer, Run, Cycle| Argus - Pedometer, Run, Cycle Health-and-fitness monitor for walking, running, cycling, sleeping, calorie and liquid intake, and heart rate. Health-and-fitness monitor for walking, running, cycling, sleeping, calorie and liquid intake, and heart rate. Counts number of steps taken, and is able to automatically distinguish when the user is walking or running. Keeps a tally of heart beats via the phones camera and an LED flash. It also calculates calories consumed, and amount of time spent asleep (though it does not analyse sleep quality or offer suggestions on how to improve sleep). Allows daily goals to be set for number of steps, amount of sleep, calories eaten, and fluids drunk, and reminds the user after these goals are reached. Relies on GPS to map running and cycling (and even driving). Historical trends can be observed. A food diary of meals consumed can be built up, with added photographs. Each activity can be made public via Facebook (whether to selected individuals, or a wider audience). The app syncs via Bluetooth to the $99.99 wristband of another manufacturer, Salutron Incs LifeTrak Zone C410 activity tracker, displaying the information recorded by the band in a more graphic and accessible series of formats than is possible on the bands small display.
ArthritisID| ArthritisID Contains information on detecting, treating and managing arthritis. Contains information on detecting, treating and managing arthritis. Types of arthritis considered by the app include ankylosing spondylitis, gout, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, lupus, osteoarthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis. Information on the prevention of arthritis includes facts about exercise, diet and nutrition. Treatment strategies and details about medication are discussed. An interactive arthritis screening tool and questionnaire helps the user detect indications of arthritis. Personal information about arthritis screenings can be saved.
AskIzzy| AskIzzy A mobile website to help homeless Australians search for local services for physical and mental health, shelter and other needs. Currently it is being expanded to improve how Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities can access health and well-being services.
AskSARA| AskSARA Provides information on how older people, and people with a disability, can find solutions to a wide range of activities in the home that might present them with problems. Provides information on how older people, and people with a disability, can find solutions to a wide range of activities in the home that might present them with problems. A user chooses a section (such as Vision), and, after answering a set of questions, receives a report containing advice.
Asthma Coach| Asthma Coach Logs asthma activity, medicines, triggers, and peak-flow readings in diary and graph form. Logs asthma activity, medicines, triggers, and peak-flow readings in diary and graph form. Contains instructional videos, and a live March-November pollen feed.
Asthma Health| Asthma Health A personalised tool that enables people with asthma to gain insight into their asthma, avoid triggers, adhere to treatment plans, and take charge of their health. The Asthma Health app helps people with asthma to:
AsthmaTrack| AsthmaTrack Allows a user with asthma to record event information (such as environmental conditions, symptoms, treatments, and vital signs) that may be relevant to asthma. Allows a user with asthma to record event information (such as environmental conditions, symptoms, treatments, and vital signs) that may be relevant to asthma. Pre-loaded event templates can be customised to log important information. Records can be saved, then emailed for archiving, printing, or sharing with a doctor. Multiple logs can be kept, perhaps for family members. Information is stored locally on the users phone (waiting to sync, upload, or login to a remote site is therefore unnecessary).
AVC| AVC Provides information on recognising signs of a stroke, and techniques of assistance. Provides information on recognising signs of a stroke, and techniques of assistance. Also allows donations to be made to France-based patient group, France Accident Vasculaire Crbral (AVC).
BabyWatch Tracking (formerly BellaBEAT)| BabyWatch Tracking (formerly BellaBEAT) Records the heartbeart of an unborn baby, and allows the sound file to be shared online. Allows parent-to-be to listen to their unborn child's heartbeart, and to see the heartbeat as a moving visual image. The sound file can be shared with family and friends via the developer's 'GlobalBeat' social platform [http://babywatch.co/BabyWatchbeat.html]. Acts as a calendar, tracking relevant dates during pregnancy. Also contains medical illustrations about the various stages of foetal development, and tips and hints about prenatal matters. Has received FDA approval as a medical device, and the developer has declared the app CE certified, indicating the app's compliance with EU legislation. Does not contain adverts. Note: the app requires the purchase of a hardware item,a pocket-sized ultrasound Doppler.
Back to Action| Back to Action Displaysexercises suitable for people with ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Displays exercises suitable for people with ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Can be used as part of a normal daily exercise routine, at home, or in a gym. Categories of exercise include: breathing exercises, cardiovascular, flexibility and mobility. An 'Exercise diary' sets out a potential week of exercises. Also provides information aboutclasses andsports suitable for people with AS. One section explains AS for gym staff.
Bant - A diabetes app for the ePatient| Bant - A diabetes app for the ePatient Diabetes management app intended to simplify diabetes management, and to be used by adolescents and younger people with diabetes. Diabetes management app intended to simplify diabetes management, and to be used by adolescents and younger people with diabetes. Compatible with glucose meters (via Bluetooth). The user can enter data readings such as glucose values with a single swipe. Readings are stored on a secure Microsoft HealthVault account. Trend graphs can be customised with a variety of colours, time periods and labels. Data can be shared with healthcare professionals and others via email, Twitter and Microsoft HealthVault.
Beat Bleeds| Beat Bleeds App to help people with haemophilia to set goals, track bleed rates and locations, and get treatment reminders. This app was developed by Baxalta/Shire.
Beat Panic [FullKontrol in Norwegian]| Beat Panic [FullKontrol in Norwegian] Designed to guide a user through a panic attack, or through an episode of raised anxiety. Designed to guide a user through a panic attack, or through an episode of raised anxiety. Displays a series of flash cards in soothing colours. Intended especially for use away from home (but can also be used in the home setting). Aims to help the user focus thoughts, slow breathing, reduce heart rate, and release tension.
Behavior Tracker Pro| Behavior Tracker Pro Allows carers, healthcare professionals, parents, and teachers to track the behaviour patterns of children, and to present them in graph form. Allows carers, healthcare professionals, parents, and teachers to track the behaviour patterns of children, and to present them in graph form.
Bemyeyes| Bemyeyes Bemyeyes creates a live video connection between a visually-impaired person and a sighted volunteer when they need remote help. The app currently supports around more than 32000 visually-impaired people through a global network of around 450000 sighted volunteers.
BHF PocketCPR| BHF PocketCPR Provides real-time feedback, and visual and audio instructions, on how to learn and practice hands-only cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Provides real-time feedback, and visual and audio instructions, on how to learn and practice hands-only cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Utilises the accelerometer hardware in the phone to measure the rate and depth of the users practice compressions, warning whether pushes need to be faster or slower, harder or softer. A metronome paces chest compressions. Can capture CPR compression and accelerometer data, allowing the user to record the quality of their training. Results can be emailed.
BIG Launcher| BIG Launcher Simplified phone home screen for older people, and for people with visual impairment (and even for anyone who dislikes numerous phone icons). Simplified phone home screen for older people, and for people with visual impairment (and even for anyone who dislikes numerous phone icons). Replaces the common user interface of any Android phone. Designed for readability and ease of use. Large text and large colorful icons help the user to access the phones most important facilities. Controlled by single touches, with no swipes or long presses. Shortcuts and lists give access to apps. Three font sizes allow the screen to be tailored to the users degree of sight disability, while TalkBack, an open-source Android screenreader, offers spoken feedback for blind users.
Big Picture Debates the Brain| Big Picture Debates the Brain Interactive quiz/debate about social and ethical issues relating to the brain. Interactive quiz/debate about social and ethical issues relating to the brain. The user picks topics of debate, reads the information about those debates presented by the app in an interactive fashion, and makes a judgement as to which side of the debate to support. The app adds the user's 'vote' to a crowd-sourced tally of the votes of previous users, and the app then allows the user to view the 'majority' opinion on the debate.
Big White Wall| Big White Wall Provides advice helpful to peoplewith anxiety, debt, stress, or work problems. Big White Wall provides safe, anonymous support 24/7 to anyone struggling with a range of common mental health issues, or who feels burdened by everyday worries and concerns.Members can share experiences, express themselves in images by making a brick in the wall, and access a range of guided group support courses on topics including managing anxiety and depression, positive thinking and problem solving. There is also a range of self-administered clinical tests, guides and tips to improve wellbeing, including articles on self-esteem, sleep, relationships and many more. Trained counsellors (called Wall Guides) are online at all times to moderate the service and provide additional support. According to BWW95% of members feel better after using Big White Wall, and 73% share an issue for the first time. Big White Wall is available 24/7 on the website, and via tablet and smartphone app. After creating an account at
Blackouts Checkapp| Blackouts Checkapp Assesses whether a user might be at risk of blackouts. Assesses whether a user might be at risk of blackouts. Developed for people with epilepsy, psychological problems, or syncope (and also intended for use by their family members or carers, or by medical professionals). After the user has answered a checklist of questions related to blackout, the app awards a red or green flag, depending on whether the user seems at high risk of blackouts, or is more likely to experience blackouts only of a simple, harmless type.
Bladder Pal| Bladder Pal Tool to track bladder health in both men and women. Tool to track bladder health in both men and women. Contains a Voiding diary to track fluid intake and urinary output. Output can be measured with a container known as a hat, purchasable at a pharmacy. Also provides an American Urological Association (AUA) Symptom score (a questionnaire designed to help a user, in conjunction with a doctor, assess urinary symptoms and response to therapy). The app listsmeasurementsin cubic centimetres (CC), not millilitres (ml).
Blood Pressure Log| Blood Pressure Log Allows blood pressure, pulse, and weight readings to be tracked. Allows blood pressure, pulse, and weight readings to be tracked. Information that can be logged includes date and time of reading; heart rate (pulse); site and position; systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP); weight (in kilograms or pounds); and comments. Data for an unlimited number of other users (such as family members) can be entered. Some data analysis based on recommendations by international medical professional bodies is also available. A full version of the app is identical, but without advertisements. The app loses its English title in languages other than English. For instance: Blutdruck Logbuch (DE), and Registro de presin arterial (ES).
BloodPressureDB| BloodPressureDB Allows a user to record in chart form systolic and diastolic blood pressure, pulse and weight. Allowsa user to record in chart form systolic and diastolic blood pressure, pulse and weight. Comments can be added.
BlueLoop| BlueLoop Allows a user to recorddiabetes-related personalinformation, including blood glucose levels, carbohydrate consumption, and medication. Allows a user to record diabetes-related personal information, including blood glucose levels, carbohydrate consumption, and medication. Details can be emailed.
BlueStar Diabetes| BlueStar Diabetes Provides immediate guidance and coaching to adults with type 2 diabetes after entering blood glucose or medication data. Helps track and calculate carbs and calculate medications. Helps track medications. Launched in 2013. Provides immediate guidance and coaching to adults with type 2 diabetes after entering blood glucose or medication data. Helps track and calculate carbs and calculate medications. Helps track medications. A physician must write a prescription for the app. The app is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, as a Mobile Prescription Therapy (MPT) product. MPT products must show in clinical trials that they are safe and help people improve their health. They must also keep your health information private.
Body Language - Expressions| Body Language - Expressions Allows recognition training of fleeting facial expressions known as micro-expressions. Allows recognition training of fleeting facial expressions known as micro-expressions. Aims to improve skills in recognising fleeting expressions, and in deciphering concealed emotions (useful in the personal relationships of people with a learning disability, or people with a hearing impairment).
Brain S3D HD| Brain S3D HD Tool for viewing the brain in 3D. Tool for viewing the structure of the brain, with a great level of realism, in 3D. Based onhistological sections of healthy brain, the app displays the amygdaloid body, corpus callosum,hippocampus, and many other elements of the brain. A user can study these componentsfrom any viewpoint.
BrainyApp| BrainyApp A toolkit to help fight dementia, using changes in lifestyle. BrainyApp' allows users to take a brain-heart health survey about their diet, exercise patterns and lifestyle. It then provides suggestions and ideas about how to make improvements to each and encourages users to build brain-heart points by staying physically and mentally active, socialising with friends and family, and sharing their progress on Facebook.
BreastAware| BreastAware Information on how to check breasts, and on lifestyle choices for decreasing the risk of breast cancer. Information on how to check breasts, and on lifestyle choices for decreasing the risk of breast cancer. Issues reminders to attend screening.
Bribespot| Bribespot Allows the user to track and anonymously report examples of bribery. The app has a special category focusing on bribery in healthcare worldwide. Allows the user to track and anonymously report examples of bribery that they experience. Bribes reported by other anonymous users can be shown on a map or in lists, filtered by category, location, or recency. Tips on the reporting of bribes are supplied. The app's employment of
British Sign Language - Finger Spelling| British Sign Language - Finger Spelling Helps a user learn the British Sign Language (BSL) alphabet. Helps a user learn the British Sign Language (BSL) alphabet. Shows simply and clearly the hand indication for each letter.
Brush DJ| Brush DJ App intended to show the correct length of time when brushing teeth. App intended to show the correct length of time when brushing teeth. Plays music as an accompaniment, to make the task of toothbrushing more interesting.
Buddy| Buddy An app for medical professionals to purchase, and then to pass on topatients who are living with a mental health problem. An app for medical professionals to purchase, and then to pass on to patients who are living with a mental health problem. Enables people with a mental health problem to overcome shortcomings with memory by digitally recordingmoods and activities for their doctor. A user can keep a daily diary, access web tools to helpunderstand the condition, set personal goals, and receive prompts to achieve those targets. Appointment reminders inform about dates with healthcare professionals. The app aims to improve outcomes for people with a long-term mental-health condition, and to enable medical practitioners to support their patients more effectively.
C25K - 5K Trainer Free| C25K - 5K Trainer Free Provides training in how to run for five kilometres. Fitness and training app that provides instruction, over the course of an 8-week period, in how to build up to a five-kilometre run. Intended for people who cannot, at the moment, run such a distance. Functions with indoor treadmills as well as outdoors. Allows personal choice of music to be played while working out/running. Links with MyFitnessPal to estimate calories burned during a workout/run. Information about progress can be placed on Facebook or Twitter.Developer partners with the New York-based Breast Cancer Research Foundation (BCRF).
Calico (Global)| Calico (Global) Allows cycle rides, runs, and walks to be tracked. Allows cycle rides, runs and walks to be tracked, with the aim of improving health and fitness. Exercise goals and calorie-burning targets can be set. GPS maps show location. The amount of calories being expended, and distance and speed can all be monitored. Music can be listened to while exercising, and photographs taken. Graphs and statistics show exercise history. Data can be stored in the 'cloud', and workouts shared on Facebook and Twitter. Badges earned display progress.
Calorie Counter & Diet Tracker| Calorie Counter & Diet Tracker Food and calorie tracker with a database ofa million-plus foods. Food and calorie tracker with a database of a million-plus foods. Contains a fitness tracker for logging workouts and calories burned, a 'quick-glance view' of calories eaten and burned, and a weigh-in page that graphs weight and progress over time. All features require users to log in to the app over a Wi-Fi, 3G or Edge network connection. Registration to the SparkPeople website gives access to healthy-living articles, fitness videos, and recipes.
Calorie Counter and kJ Counter PRO by MyNetDiary| Calorie Counter and kJ Counter PRO by MyNetDiary Weight- and nutrition-management app that allows dietary goals to be set. Weight- and nutrition-management app that allows dietary goals to be set. Links online to the developers database of nutritional details about 450,000 foods (up to 35 components per food, including carbohydrates, cholesterol, fat, fibre, protein, sodium, sugars, and vitamins), which the user can update via smartphone photos. The database can be searched manually, or by the built-in barcode scanner. Food listings display serving sizes in cups, grams or ounces. The offline version of the food database is much smaller. Favourites can be saved, and recipes created. The app also lists 500 exercises, and calculates calorie-consumption rate during exercise (based on weight). Custom exercises can be added. The app calculates body-mass index, and various targets (including calories, carbohydrates, fat, protein, and weight-maintenance calories), based on age, gender, height, personal activity level, and weight. Blood sugars can be logged, as well as blood pressure, daily steps taken, and hours of sleep and work. Progress in both exercising and eating healthily can be tracked in an array of formats, showing metrics against goal charts. The developers website, 'mynetdiary.com', provides access to an online community, Twitter integration, and in-depth reporting functions (registration required). Entries made in offline mode sync upon connecting to the Web.
Calorie Counter by FatSecret| Calorie Counter by FatSecret Allows a user to find nutritional information about food, and to track meals, exercise and weight. Allows a user to find nutritional information about food, and to track meals, exercise and weight. Favourite foods, brands and restaurants can be accessed with a Quick pick facility. Various diaries include a food diary (to plan and track food eaten); an exercise diary (to record calories burned); a diet calendar (to see calories consumed and burned); a weight tracker; and a progress journal. Also contains a barcode scanner and recipes.
CalorieKing Australia Food Search| CalorieKing Australia Food Search Allows the calorie, carbohydrate, fat, and kilojoule content of foods to be checked. Allows the calorie, carbohydrate, fat, and kilojoule content of foods to be checked. Lists over 22,000 foods. Tapping on a specific food shows more detailed information about its content, including: alcohol, cholesterol, fibre, saturated fat, sodium, and trans fat.
Cancer iOncolex| Cancer iOncolex Provides patients (and their carers and families) with information on up to three cancers (breast, lung and prostate), supported by interactive illustrations, photos and videos. Now only available via website. The app version is no longer supported. Provides patients (and their carers and families) with information on up to three cancers (breast, lung and prostate), supported by interactive illustrations, photos and videos. A medical dictionary gives simple explanations of medical terms. Has a search function, and a user can store bookmarks. Text, images and illustrations run without a network connection, which is only needed for viewing videos.
Cancer.net Mobile| Cancer.net Mobile Patient information on cancer and treatments from the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Cancer.Net Mobile covers more than 120 types of cancer, with information about treatment as well as living with cancer. Helps keep track of questions to ask doctors. Store your own detailed information on prescribed medications, including photos of labels and bottles. Track the time and severity of symptoms and side effects. A section featuring the latest videos, podcasts, and Cancer.Net Feature Articles.
Cancergraph| Cancergraph An app to help people with cancer to track symptoms and side effects over days, months and years. Cancergraph was:
Carb Counting with Lenny| Carb Counting with Lenny Carbohydrate-counting app intended to help children with diabetes gain the skills required to count carbohydrates. Carbohydrate-counting app intended to help children with diabetes gain the skills required to count carbohydrates. A Food guide section informs about the carbohydrate values of food items in a typical household. A user can select items from lists of thumbnail pictures which indicate serving size, and grams of carbohydrates per serving. Favourite foods not listed can be added (the user is required to source and enter the food data). The Games section allows the user to test knowledge of carbohydrate counting through a variety of interactive activities. Online competitions allow the user play against other users (USA only).
Carbohydrate Units Calculator / Carb Counter & Food Exchange List for Diabetics| Carbohydrate Units Calculator / Carb Counter & Food Exchange List for Diabetics Carbohydrate counter to support self-management of diabetes. This app helps with carb counting. Carb counting is seen by diabetes professionals around the world as an effective meal planning technique to better manage blood glucose levels. Done right, it can lead to better blood glucose control and greater flexibility in the times and amount of foods we eat. It improves the physical and psychological well-being of diabetics by offering greater freedom of (food) choice and a more relaxed lifestyle.
Carbs & Cals - Diabetes & Diet| Carbs & Cals - Diabetes & Diet Allows the user to count the amount of calories and carbohydrates contained in food and drink by consulting the app's 1,400-plus photographs of food and drink items. Allows the user to count the amount of calories and carbohydrates contained in food and drink by consulting the app's 1,400-plus photographs of food and drink items. The payable, full version of the app lists over 500 food and drink items, while the Lite version lists only 34 such items (both versions identical otherwise). Calculations to figure out carbohydrate and calorie content are unnecessary; the user matches the food on their plate with photographs in the app, chooses the correct portion size (up to 6 portion photos for each food item), and adds the result to the built-in meal calculator. Details of each meal can be saved into the integrated calendar, so that the daily consumption of carbs and cals can be tracked.
Care4Today Mobile Health Manager and Medication Reminder| Care4Today Mobile Health Manager and Medication Reminder Reminder to take medications on time. A tool that reminds the user to take medications (and health supplements) on time. The 'Care4Family' facility allows the user to check on whether family members are taking their medication as prescribed, and to encourage them to do so. The 'Care4Charity' facility allows donations to be sent to selected NGOs. The app willwork with any service provider or service plan, and on almost any mobile phone (including feature phones, as well as smartphones). It containsphotographs of 20,000-plus medicines (including generics), to help with users' identification of medicines. Graphs on progress at taking medication on time can be shared with healthcare providers or family and friends. An FDA-registered Class 1, 510K-exempt medical device. A European version will be made available later in 2014.
CareMonkey| CareMonkey Allows a carer to track the contents of a person's medical records. Allows a person's medical records to be shared among people who may be caring for that person on an occasional basis (including family and friends, games coaches, older siblings, teachers, etc).
CareTRx| CareTRx Designed to simplify chronic respiratory disease management, connecting patients and caregivers through remote monitoring and real-time adherence tools. In some cases access to the app may only be possible through a healthcare provider. The app has four facilities: Track & Record: track and record different asthma and COPD medications, symptoms, triggers, peak flow measurements, and flare-ups in one place; Get Feedback: view stats and trends over time, and get tailored feedback based on medication use and daily events; Achieve Goals, receive real-time notifications and earn motivational badges for achieving goals; Invite & Share: invite and work together with family members, and share summary reports with care team.
CareZone| CareZone App to help carers organise all care information in one place CareZone is a long-established app that helps carers to manage in one place all aspects of care.
CaringBridge| CaringBridge App to help carers organise all care information in one place A social network aimed particularly at people with an illness. Allows the user to connect with family, friends, carers. A personal website can be created, then updated whenever the user chooses. A Journal can be added (with photographs included), to keep visitors to the site informed. Visitors can leave messages on a Guestbook. The sites of family and friends can be similarly accessed. An Activity Planner allows the days events to be planned, or care to be coordinated.
Carrot Rewards| Carrot Rewards App rewarding Canadians through loyalty points for learning how to live more healthily Following pilots and evaluation, the intention is to roll the app out across Canada, and expand its functionality.
CatchMyPain - Pain Diary| CatchMyPain - Pain Diary A diary of pain felt by the user, to help explain the pain to doctors. A pain diary that allows the user to create colour-coded drawings of the location and intensity of the pain. Comments can be added. Details recorded include the time of the pain, the 'quality' of the pain (for example, sharp, or hot), and the user's overall happiness at the time of the pain. Graphs express the course of the pain's progression or withdrawal. The pain diary can be emailed to family, friends or healthcare providers, or saved as a PDF. A 'Pro' version is available for 2.49 [approximately 2.95; $4.05], which allows the exchange of best practice with other patients.
CBT Keeper| CBT Keeper Relies on cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) to help the user overcome anxiety and depression. Takes the user in simple steps through the principles of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), with the aim of overcominganxiety and depression. Allows these conditions to be tracked on some of the standardised measuring tools of mental-health professionals,including the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and the Generalised Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7). Offers daily reminders, and sets goals. Provides game-like elements, to keep users motivated.Personal information stays stored in the users phone. Contains in-app advertisements, which can be disabled through the purchase of a premium upgrade. USA-based users can phone the country's National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. Now also available on Amazon.
CF MedCare| CF MedCare Treatment reminderto help people who have cystic fibrosis (CF) manage their medication regime. Allows a user to create a personal treatment profile (or multiple profiles, for family members and carers), taking into account medicines, schedules and other types of relevant instructions. Alerts appear on screen whena medicine is due to be taken. The user inputs one ofa set of standard responses(such as "I Already Took"; "Take Now", "Skip", "Postpone", etc). The user can also add images (for instance, of a prescription), and type in text. The appacts as atracker, recording the user'scompliance record over time. Records can be sorted alphabetically or chronologically.The app builds medicine information into tables, noting medicine name,type, strength, dosage, start and end dates, and instructions.The app allows these records to be emailed to ahealthcare professional or any other person.
Charity Miles| Charity Miles Allows a user to pick a charity (from a provided list), and raise money for it by sponsored cycling, running, or walking. Allows a user to pick a charity (from a provided list), and raise money for it by sponsored cycling, running, or walking. The app tracks progress and the money earned for the charity per mile. Requires a Facebook account.
Chatable| Chatable ChatAble enable people to communicate using symbols and graphics. ChatAble is a communication app which acts as both a grid communication aid, and a scene display app. These two proven formats have been brought together to provide an easy new system for users to interact with other people in a fun and meaningful way. ChatAble is designed for people with autism, cerebral palsy, aphasia and a range of users who require aided communication.ChatAble is the first iOS application in the world to contain ModeTalker voices, which allow a user to create their own synthetic voice  for free  with their own accent, pitch and cadence. ModelTalker also allows the user to bank their own voice, or have a friend or relative give their voice to use; ModelTalker voices let the user sound like themselves again.For those who have physical impairments, switch access makes it possible to communicate using ChatAble without touching the screen. You can use one or two switches to control the scanning and change the scanning features (e.g. scanning rate or number of cycles). The app is CE certified.
Chemo Brain Doc Notes Free| Chemo Brain Doc Notes Free Recording tool to help patients gain the most from a visit to a doctor. Recording tool that aims to help patients gain the most from a visit to a doctor. Particularly aimed at people with cancer who are suffering from chemotherapy-induced memory loss ('chemo brain'), but also of value to any patient. The app allows the user to record memos via text or voice about the subjects that need to be raised at the next visit to the doctor. Voice recording can be initiated with a simple tap. Comments made by the doctor during the visit to the doctor can also be recorded by text or by voice. Information can be stored in folders under categories such as 'side effects', 'symptoms', 'prescriptions', and 'test results'. An in-app purchase unlocks the ability to email the recordings to family or carers.
Chest PT| Chest PT Timer for parentswhoperform manual chest physiotherapy (PT) on a child who has cystic fibrosis. Timer for parents who perform manualphysical therapy (PT) on the chest ofa child living with cystic fibrosis. Issues a reminder when a session of PT positions is due. Allows the various positions of thePT session to be specified, and a length of time set forthe positions to be maintained(minutes per position). A customised sound to mark the end of each PT position can be added. Rest periods can be built in, to relieve fatigue.A 'good-job' screen appears at the end of a session of PT positions, to act as a reward for the participating child. The app is designed to be simple and uncomplicated.
Child Feeding Guide| Child Feeding Guide A resource designed for parents and caregivers who want to understand why their child is 'fussy' and what they can do to improve mealtimes. The app provides education on common feeding pitfalls, including why a behaviour is occuring. The app explains what to do with tools to help. Parents can track their child's eating behaviour, but also their own well-being. The app also represents a preventative resource, that can be used before weaning to educate parents on children's developmentally predictable responses to food, before problems occur. The developers, a group of academics from Loughborough University all of whom are mothers, hope the app may be a better medium to reach less engaged families/parents, than having them come and visit their health visitor.
Clinical Trial Seek| Clinical Trial Seek Searches theNational Institutes of Health clinicaltrials.gov database for cancer clinical trials. Searches theNational Institutes of Health (NIH) clinicaltrials.gov database for clinical trials suitable for people with cancer. Searching by location allows people to find trials in their own geographic area. Searches can be refined by cancer type, by treatment, by the phase of the trial, by the trial sponsor, by entry qualifications, or both other factors. Search results can be saved, and emailed. The app also offers background information about clinical trials. For clinical trials in the USA only.
CML Today| CML Today Enables patients with CML to track their medication, receive reminders and track their results. The app is not limited to a specific brand or manufacturer.
Cochrane Library, The| Cochrane Library, The Up-to-date healthcare information from the UK-based Cochrane Library. Provides up-to-date healthcare information from the UK-based Cochrane Library. All content is free, and includes abstracts, reviews and summaries. Information can be read, podcasts listened to, and videos viewed. Articles, figures, images, and tables can all be bookmarked. Content can be read offline.New data is downloaded regularly.
Coeliac UK  Gluten-free on the move| Coeliac UK  Gluten-free on the move The app will help you manage every element of your gluten-free diet, whether it's shopping for food or finding somewhere to eat out. The app will help you manage every element of your gluten-free diet, whether it's shopping for food or finding somewhere to eat out.The app includes access to the Food and Drink Directory and you can scan items as you shop to see if they are suitable for your gluten-free diet and listed in our (Coeliac UK) Directory, search through the additions and deletions in real time, use the Gluten-free Checklist to help you search through a product's ingredients list and more.The Venue Guide will use the location services on your phone so you can search for venues where you are. You can see which venues we've accredited too, so you know who has worked with us. (Though the numbers of venues listed is limited, according to a number of comments about the app on Facebook.)There is also a wealth of other information on the app including a Label Guide, Eating Out tips and news from Coeliac UK.
Cognitive Diary CBT Self-Help| Cognitive Diary CBT Self-Help Aims to teach the user self-help tools of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) as a means of challenging irrational thinking that might otherwise lead to anger, anxiety, depression, relationship conflict, or stress. Aims to teach the user self-help tools of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) as a means of challenging irrational thinking that might otherwise lead to anger, anxiety, depression, relationship conflict, or stress. Can customise a list of emotions/moods, and can add personal coping statements to a list of challenges. Allows the users history of recorded events to be reviewed. Password protected. The apps methods are claimed to be shown in psychological research as effective in changing behaviour, emotions, and moods.
coldAlert| coldAlert Alerts people in Sussex, England, about the expected arrival of cold weather. An alert service that provides warnings of imminent cold weather in the county of Sussex, England. Intended for carers, health professionals, and for people especiallyvulnerable to the cold (such as older people, and people with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). The alerts are sent by email, text, or voicemail messages to home phones. Information supplied includes details on the expected severity of the cold weather. Registration on thecoldAlert website is necessary to receive push notifications.
Colonoscopy Prep Assistant| Colonoscopy Prep Assistant Designed for people with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), such as Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, and who are scheduled to receive a colonoscopy. Designed for people with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), such as Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, and who are scheduled to receive a colonoscopy. Helps a user keep track of the time between the drinks of liquid laxative taken in advance of the procedure. Aidsin the task of remembering how many such drinks have been taken. Specifies between a certain number of glasses and until finished. Additional features for the app are in a preparatory stage.
Color ID (Free)| Color ID (Free) When a userphotographs an object, and then taps the on-screen image of the photographed object, the app will read aloudthe object's colour. When a user photographs an object, and then taps the on-screen image of the photographed object, the app will read aloud the object's colour. Useful for people with colour blindness or sight problems.
Companion| Companion App designed for teens and adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder, to help with daily tasks and activities when parents or teachers are not around for support. Companion uses a human avatar called Abby to help people with autism to organise and carry out day to day tasks and activities.
Cook & Count| Cook & Count Contains nutritional information on calories, fat, protein, fibre and sugars, as well as carbohydrate. Cook & Count is recommended by dietitians, nutritionists and specialist diabetes dietitians, nurses and educators. Users can build and save recipes in their own digital recipe book, follow our tried and tested recipe ideas, and share recipes with friends and family - all including thorough nutritional information.
CPtoys| CPtoys Identifies toys as being potentially suitable for children with cerebral palsy (CP). Identifies a list of toys, each of which is potentially suitable to be matched to the ability level and age of children with cerebral palsy (CP). The aim is to provide the child with toys and activities that are goal-directed for upper-limb therapy, and can help the childacquire new motor skills and learning. In addition, the app offersindividual upper-limb therapy programmes for children with cerebral palsy. Many of the toys listed by the app are available across the world, but all can be found in Australia (prices of designated toys are in Australian dollars). The app is only available on iphone and ipad.
Crisis Card| Crisis Card In the event of a mental health crisis the Crisis Card app provides a one-button-press call for help, to reach out to the user's support network without having to face a phone call. The mental health charity MIND, working in conjunction with the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough Clinical Commissioning Group and the SUN Network, wanted to increase the reach and user experience of their paper-based Crisis Card tool. The Crisis Card helps people living with mental health issues manage and get help during times of crisis. the Crisis Card app is the result. Users can communicate your needs without having to talk, and share your location without knowing where they are.
DAF Assistant| DAF Assistant Helps people who have a stuttering problem to speak more fluently. Helps people who have a stuttering problem to speak more fluently.
DAFNE Online| DAFNE Online Allows the user to remain connected with the DAFNE Online support network for people with type-1 diabetes who have attended the Dose Adjustment For Normal Eating (DAFNE) course. Allows the user to remain connected with the DAFNE Online support network for people with type-1 diabetes who have attended the Dose Adjustment For Normal Eating (DAFNE) course. The app has a blood-glucose diary that allows blood-glucose levels, and carbohydrate and insulin intake, to be recorded and uploaded to the users DAFNE online account. Blood-glucose targets can be specified for different times of day. Diary results are colour coded, to show below or above target. The app will auto-calculate insulin dosage. Backup of data can be set to manual or automatic. Also contains information about the carbohydrate content of portions (accessible without an Internet connection).
Dbees.com| Dbees.com Diabetes management app for people with type-1, type-2, gestational, latent-autoimmune diabetes of adulthood (LADA), or secondary diabetes. Diabetes management app for people with type-1, type-2, gestational, latent-autoimmune diabetes of adulthood (LADA), or secondary diabetes. The app is part of an integrated diabetes-support system, with the 'dbees.com' website as the main hub. The user can input diabetes type, treatment types (insulin, pills, pumps) and units, blood glucose, blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, diet, and exercise activity. All data input by the user is synchronised on the users Web-based account, allowing for back-up of records, and further in-depth analysis. The user can then review data in an array of customisable graphs, create personalised daily planners, and set reminders to input data on a regular basis. The secure connection allows data to be shared with carers and healthcare professionals.
DevContacts| DevContacts App that aims to put a human face to worldwide aid and poverty statistics, and to demonstrate progress towards United Nations (UN) Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). App that aims to put a human face to worldwide aid and poverty statistics, and to demonstrate progress towards United Nations (UN) Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Assigns each person listed in the users phone address book to one of 130-plus countries, and builds an imaginary scenario of the person's new 'life', as if they had been born and raised in that country. Brings interest-value to information from the World Banks Data Catalog, and lists UN-sourced details for each countrys progress against the MDGs.
Dexcom| Dexcom Training and educational app for use with the Dexcom 7 glucose-management sensor. Training and educational app for use with the Dexcom 7 glucose-management sensor. Contains training videos, educational materials, and step-by-step guides on how to insert the Dexcom sensor. A list of frequently-asked questions, and support contact information from which sensor supplies can be re-ordered is also present on the app.
Dexteria| Dexteria App to improve fine motor skills as part recovering from injury or stroke, or for learning development skills. Dexteria turns your iOS device into a therapeutic tool that improves fine motor skills and handwriting readiness in children and adults.
Diabetes App - blood sugar control, glucose tracker and carb counter| Diabetes App - blood sugar control, glucose tracker and carb counter Diabetes data-management app that allows the user to log and track factors which influence blood-sugar level. Diabetes data-management app that allows the user to log and track factors which influence blood-sugar level. Information that can be input includes body-mass index, blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, exercise activities, glucose levels, insulin and medication doses, water consumption, and weight. The app tracks trends over time, and will compute daily factor budgets (such as carbohydrate intake and body mass index) in calendar and graphic formats. An inbuilt offline database of 200,000-plus foods allows the user to calculate carbohydrates, relevant nutritional information (including calories, cholesterol, sodium, etc), and build recipes. Data can be backed up and restored over WiFi, and is password protected. Data can be shared via integrated Twitter, or emailed to healthcare professionals and carers.
Diabetes Australia| Diabetes Australia An app that provides general support for living with diabetes as well as helping you find and manage your healthcare services. Diabetes Australia app is a useful resource for manging your diabetes, including meal planning. The app also provides the latest news on diabetes, reciepes and exercise tips. In Australia, you can search for events in your state or territory using the location or map feature. You can also use the app to keep track of your appointments. The services section on the home page gives you easy access to contact details for healthcare professionals. If you are away from home, on holidays or visiting someone, you can use the app to see what services are locally available. Diabetes Australia CEO Prof Greg Johnson said that the technology will enable Australians with diabetes to better self-manage their condition. Now Australian users will be able to access a free and complete healthy living tool to maximise positive health outcomes in the palm of their hand. Its easy to navigate and engage with and access is 24/7, Prof Johnson said.
Diabetes Diary| Diabetes Diary Diabetes diary for recording and tracking blood-glucose readings, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosing. Diabetes diary for recording and tracking blood-glucose readings, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosing. A user enters blood readings (in either mmol/L or mg/dl format). Insulin units and type can be selected via a brand list, or customised insulin and characteristics can be added. Dosing logs accept information as to which part of the body insulin is administered (the user selects via an injection-site distribution diagram; the percentage body part of total injection sites is also shown). Carbohydrate intake is recorded in grams, input manually. Each log contains contextual tags (including time and date, time of dayfor instance, before breakfast), and other notes. Aggregate data is displayed in graph format, covering timeframes of: average per day; last seven days, and month-by-month. Data can be backed-up via a built-in Dropbox web server, and exported as HTML and CSV, to send to carers or healthcare professionals.
Diabetes Log| Diabetes Log Diabetes management tracker for recording food intake, glucose readings, and medicine records. Diabetes management tracker for recording food intake, glucose readings, and medicine records. The user inputs data and contextual notes. Custom spans can be set to track and view. Data can be exported via common-space value (CSV) over email.
Diabetes Pal| Diabetes Pal Allows a user with diabetes to trackA1c, blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, food intake, medication, weight, etc. Allows a user with diabetes to track A1c, blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, food intake, medication, weight, etc. Information can be transferred to the 'MyTelcare' website for viewing (https://mytelcare.com/Telserve).
Diabetes Pilot| Diabetes Pilot Diabetes management app for anyone with diabetes (whether taking insulin, other medications, or just involved with diet and exercise). Dietary advice and good information is provided. Diabetes management app for anyone with diabetes (whether taking insulin, other medications, or just involved with diet and exercise). The user can input, record and track with contextual tagging blood glucose (mg/dL or mmol/L), blood pressure, exercise activities, meals, medications, weight, and other notes. An integral food database offers nutritional information on thousands of foods, listing calories, carbohydrates, fat, fibre, protein, sodium and other nutrients. For people who take insulin, the app can estimate insulin for meals, and for correcting high blood glucose (based on user input). Also estimates HbA1C, and allows trends in blood sugars to be identified. Data is displayed in a customised graph format, which can be saved to photo albums for reference. Reports can be exported via CSV to spreadsheets, as well as sent to carers and healthcare professionals via email. Secure data can be synchronised with purchasable desktop software by the same developer for backup, editing, and for producing more elaborate reports.
Diabetes UK Tracker| Diabetes UK Tracker Logs blood glucose, blood-fat and blood-pressure levels, calories, carbohydrates, HbA1c, insulin, ketones, and weight. Logs blood glucose, blood-fat and blood-pressure levels, calories, carbohydrates, HbA1c, insulin, ketones, and weight. Graphs visualise results across days and weeks. Photos of meals, or other reminders of the day, can be added. Specific records can be saved as talking points, to help in the recognition of patterns. Allows graphs and notes to be emailed to healthcare professionals and others, or shared on Facebook or Twitter.
Diamedic| Diamedic Diabetes logbook that allows a user to record and monitor blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, exercise regimes, glucose readings, insulin injections, lab results, medication, pulse, temperature, weight, and other vital statistics. Diabetes logbook that allows a user to record and monitor blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, exercise regimes, glucose readings, insulin injections, lab results, medication, pulse, temperature, weight, and other vital statistics. The user can either select built-in categories of exercises, insulin types, or medications, or create personal preferences. Glucose periods (such as Before breakfast; After Breakfast) can be indicated, or new contextual notes can be assigned to readings. Readings can be formatted in mg/dL or mmol/L, and weight in kilograms, pounds or stones. A dosage calculator and medication-refill calculators predict refill requirements based on the previous 30 days (dependant on user input). Data displayed in multiple formats can be shared with carers or healthcare professionals via email, or exchanged with any FTP file server.
Diapp| Diapp Carbohydrate-/meal-logging app and medication calculator. Carbohydrate-/meal-logging app and medication calculator. A user searches through the integrated database of 950-plus entries of food products to find the mealthey would like to reference. Once selected, the entry displays carbohydrates per gram or per ml. The user can request items to be added to the database by contacting the developer directly. The app calculates the correct amount of insulin to be administered (spraying/boluses), based on the meals selected.
DocReady| DocReady Doc Ready helps you get ready for the first time you visit a doctor to discuss your mental health Doc Ready helps you get ready for the first time you visit a doctor to discuss your mental health
Doctoralia| Doctoralia Allows doctors and medical centres to be located (including the closest to the user). Allows doctors and medical centres to be located (including the closest to the user). Search facility can be filtered by name and specialty. Details of favourite healthcare professionals can be saved for future access to contact details. Reviews of healthcare professionals made by other users of the app can be read. The app permits the user to contact the healthcare facilities found.
Dosecast| Dosecast Reminder to take medications on time. Reminder to take medications on time. Sends dose reminders with, or without, an Internet connection. Tracks the time zone for travellers, and adjusts reminders accordingly. Issues reminders on a daily/weekly/monthly schedule, every certain number of days/weeks, or a pre-set number of hours or days since the last dose. Overdoses can be avoided by setting a maximum number of doses allowed per day or per 24 hours. Drug name, dosage information, directions, and notes can appear in the reminders for each dose. Reminders can be postponed. Allows the tracking of drugs taken via drops, inhalers, injections, liquid form, ointments, patches, or sprays.
Dr. McDougall Mobile Cookbook| Dr. McDougall Mobile Cookbook Cookbooklisting healthy foods. Cookbooklisting healthy foods. Contains 875 recipes. Also offers health tips and weight-loss tips, a Meal finder, and a search feature.
Dr.DRIN| Dr.DRIN Designed to help the user manage medication compliance. Designed to help the user manage medication adherence, drDrin is able to make even the most complex therapy easier and safer. The users treatment requirements can be entered into the app, which will issue reminders at the appropriate time of the day about the need to take the medication (in the prescribed doses), thus avoiding the risk that the user forgets the medication (or takes it twice by mistake). The app checks that medications have been taken (or not taken) on the day, and allows reports about adherence to treatment to be exported to the users healthcare professional or directly shared. In addition, the tool also help in better manage the stock of drugs and refill it on time before they run out. drDrin is now available for Apple and Android. For the momentonly people in Italy are allowed to download the app because even if the app is also in English, Dr DRin has not yet integrated the english drug database.
Dragon Dictation| Dragon Dictation Voice-recognition app that turns spoken words into on-screen text, which can be used as notes or as email. Voice-recognition app that turns spoken words into on-screen text, which can be used as notes or as email. The developer claims that the system is five times faster than typing words into the phone. An editing feature provides a list of suggested alternative words. Requires network connectivity. Functional in numerous languages.
Dragon in the Attic| Dragon in the Attic An App for 8 - 12 year old boys and girls to help them mentally cope with bullying. Dragon in the Attic is a mental health app centred on anti-bullying ideas. It is a fun, re-playable, game for 8 - 12 year old boys and girls about health and wellbeing choices which give players greater awareness and confidence, by getting kids to look after a dragon in an attic. Note: to play, users must first register. Wakefield wellbeing Ltd, a network of GP practices, collects and manages the data and assures the users privacy.
Dragon Search| Dragon Search Speech-recognition app that allows the user to conduct Internet searches on the phone through voice commands. Speech-recognition app that allows the user to conduct Internet searches on the phone through voice commands. A horizontal tool bar enables the user to quickly switch to alternative search sites. Search queries can be modified by a list of alternative suggestions.
DrugStars| DrugStars App that rewards patients for taking their medicines correctly, by making donations to patient organisations The DrugStar app enables patients in Denmark to:
e-symptoms| e-symptoms Diary that allows people with asthma or allergies to document their symptoms and potential environmental triggers. Diary that allows people with asthma or allergies to document their symptoms and potential environmental triggers. Symptoms can be noted on a daily basis, along with medication taken, and relevant lifestyle habits that might have a bearing on the allergy. Photographs of the user's skin can be taken to document dermatitis. Data is recorded in the form of charts and graphs, with the intention of passing this information to the user's doctor (can be sent at the touch of a button). The accumulated information on symptoms, medication, peak-flow readings, etc, is added by the app to data on current pollen count, air pollution levels, rainfall and temperature (available in Switzerland only), to give the user's doctor more relevant information. The app records the doctor's contact details, and each transmission to the doctor. Also offers tips on coping with allergy. Personal data is protected by PIN access. This app isan extension of a three-year allergy study of the EU research project HIALINE (Health Impacts of Airborne Allergen Information Network), led by the Institut fr Allergieforschung [Institute for Allergy Research], Helmholtz Zentrum Mnchen, Deutsches Forschungszentrum fr Gesundheit und Umwelt [German Research Centre for Environmental Health], Germany. Anonymised user data sent by the app to the project will help researchers learn more about allergies and forecasting symptoms.
Ecco CanCer| Ecco CanCer Features the activities ofBelgium-based multi-stakeholder organisation specialising in cancer, the European CanCer Organisation (ECCO). Features the activities of Belgium-based multi-stakeholder organisation specialising in cancer, the European CanCer Organisation (ECCO). Allows the user to search and browse the programmes of two ECCO-related conferences (checking, for example, exhibitions, interactive exhibitor lists, posters, satellite symposia, sessions, etc). A customised conference itinerary can be created, with session slots inserted. Comments can be noted on the app, Tweeted or emailed. The app also supplies cancer-oriented news. Mainly an app aimed at medical professionals, but also of some value to the interested patient.
EndoGoddess| EndoGoddess Diabetes-management journal for recording and tracking blood-glucose levels, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosages - with reminders when to test your blood glucose Diabetes-management journal for recording and tracking blood-glucose levels, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosages. Pre-programmed time-slot reminders to record data can be set, as well as reminders to log appointments with healthcare professionals. A note-taking function allows to-dos to be added in the timeline section. The educational section offers information and server-generated tips on diabetes medication, exercising, insulin, and recipes. The Get involved section contains details about diabetes associations and camps (relevant in the US only), and on access to relevant social media. Points are awarded to the user each time data is logged (with the intention that responsible loggers can claim items at a future date from the iTunes store).
Epilepsy Action| Epilepsy Action App to support the management of epilepsy, including medication reminder. Keeps a track of seizures. Can share the information with health professionals via the web version. Has medicines reminders for epilepsy medication and non epilepsy medication.
Epilepsy Tool Kit| Epilepsy Tool Kit Helps people with epilepsy manage and improve their own health via seizure-management tools. Helps people with epilepsy manage and improve their own health via seizure-management tools. Contains an interactive seizure diary that allows time, type, and length of seizure to be recorded, and a code assigned to each type of seizure. Information in the app offers an overview of the approximately 40 different types of seizures, plus medication facts, details on managing epilepsy, and advice on first aid. Developed after consultation with young people (to which the app may have particular appeal). [Note that a very similar/identical app is also available on Apple from the Epilepsy Society/MCM Net, titled Epilepsy Guide; http://bit.ly/LRGwZv]
Epocrates| Epocrates Provides safety information about medicines. Provides safety information on medicines One out of two US physicians rely on Epocrates to enable better patient care. Provides safety information about medicines. As a drug interaction checker, the app permits the investigation of potentially-harmful interactions between up to 30 medicines at any one time. A pill identifier feature allows single pills to be identified by their appearance and by imprint code. Information is offered on the drugs covered by US insurance companies and schemes. A directory of providers (USA only) shows the location and contact details of the nearest specialists. The app can also be used on a desktop computer. It is primarily intended for medical professionals, but can also be of value to interested patients.
eTangram| eTangram Utilises Tangram, a Chinese game in which several shapes can be assembled to make larger shapes, to teach a user how to make more complex shapes (such as a rabbit) in several levels of difficulty. Utilises Tangram, a Chinese game in which several shapes can be assembled to make larger shapes, to teacha user how to make more complex shapes (such as a rabbit) in several levels of difficulty. Particularly relevant to people with memory problems. According to the app developer: 'The app is useful to different types of people, including older people. It works at exercising manual dexterity and cognitive ability, so it could even be used by children. Ultimately what is sought is an improved quality of life. Furthermore, the use of these technologies can be advantageous therapies within the healthcare system, because these tools make the patient dependency less. We are also developing a cloud version that allows the information generated to be queried by tutors or medical professionals.'
European Health Insurance Card (EHIC)| European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) Shows citizens of EU Member States how to apply for a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC). Produced by the European Commission to show citizens of EU Member States (and four other European countries) how to apply for a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC). The app also contains general information about the card, emergency phone numbers, covered treatments and costs, how to claim reimbursement, and who to contact in case of a lost card.
Everyday BSL Dictionary| Everyday BSL Dictionary Dictionary of British Sign Language (BSL). Dictionary of British Sign Language (BSL). Contains over 4,000 sign illustrations. Searchable. Alternative signs are grouped as single entries. No Internet connection is required for use. The app is periodically updated as new signs emerge.
Everyday Skills| Everyday Skills Utilises images to teach social skills that can help a person function independently in the community (including how to prepare a meal, take care of pets, travel around, and behave in shops). Utilises images to teach social skills that can help a person function independently in the community (including how to prepare a meal, take care of pets, travel around, and behave in shops).
Exsmokers iCoach| Exsmokers iCoach Self-help, step-by-step programme for quitting smoking. Self-help, step-by-step programme for quitting smoking. A personalised programme is produced for the user, based on the answers the user gives to an initial questionnaire. The app analyses the user's smoking behaviour, and offers daily advice, feedback and tips. A 'panic' button can be pressed if the desire to smoke becomes overwhelming. Registration required with the free online digital health-coaching platform iCoach before use of the app (400,000 registered users by end-2013).
FactorTrack| FactorTrack Helps to track and record haemophilia-A factor-VIII infusions. Helps to track and record haemophilia-A factor-VIII infusions. For users on a prophylaxis regimen. The app issues infusion reminders, making the task of remembering when to infuse easier. Allows the infusion schedule to be customised to the prescribed regimen. Doses, infusions, lot numbers, and notes related to the location of bleeds can be recorded and tracked. Infusion history may be viewed and filtered. Other facilities on the app include: ability to change from a prophylaxis to an on-demand user; ability to edit past infusions; alerts for missed infusions; and an optional news service from the developer.
Fear of Flying App| Fear of Flying App Aims to help the user overcome fear of flying. Aims to help the user overcome fear of flying. Provides information and tips about what to do to reduce the levels of fear before, and during, a trip. Gives factual details about what happens during take-off, cruising and landing, and discusses in-flight turbulence. An audio version of a relaxation exercise is included, and a Panic button supplies therapy techniques. Can be used during a flight with the phone in airplane mode. An Internet connection is not needed after initial download of the app. Entitled Flight App VALK on Android, and Fear of Flying App on English-language iTunes.
Fertility Friend Ovulation| Fertility Friend Ovulation Intended to improve the chances of conception. Intended to improve the chances of conception. A colour-coded fertility calendar allows periods, fertile days, and ovulation to be tracked. Data that can be entered includes cervical fluid, daily notes, medications, symptoms, and temperature. Password protected. Integrated with the ovulation prediction facilities of the 'FertilityFriend.com' website.
Find Me Gluten Free| Find Me Gluten Free Lists gluten-free restaurants, fast-food stores, chain stores, pizzerias, bakeries, etc. Lists gluten-free restaurants, fast-food stores, chain stores, pizzerias, bakeries, etc (in the USA only). Rates establishments by price and by the reviews left by other users. Shows the menus available at the locations. Gives directions and maps of the eateries, and allows bookings to be phoned through from the app.
First aid by British Red Cross| First aid by British Red Cross Provides simple advice on how to perform first aid. Provides simple advice on how to perform first aid in 18 everyday, commonplace circumstances in which first aid is required (such as road-traffic accidents, and severe winter weather). Facilities offered include animations, checklists,expert tips, videos, and interactive quizzes (the latter leading to achievement badges which can be shared withfriends on Facebook and Twitter). All information is contained in-app, with no Internet connection required. Finally, the app supplies details about the activities of the British Red Cross, and refers to volunteering opportunities and Red Cross first-aid courses. [Note that the Red Cross in many other countries each produce their own versions of this app. One featured on this website is the app of theSvenska Rda Korset (Swedish Red Cross),Rda Korset Frsta hjlpen.]
FitDay Mobile| FitDay Mobile Diet and weight-loss journal that offers an online account to track food consumption and exercise levels. Diet and weight-loss journal that offers an online account to track food consumption and exercise levels. Progress can be charted daily, weekly, or monthly. The journal can be analysed over the long term. Custom foods can be created.
FMAUKFibroMapp| FMAUKFibroMapp For people with fibromyalgia. Tracks pain, fatigue, sleep, mood, medications, and flare ups. nan
Focus on Lymphoma| Focus on Lymphoma Information to help a person with lymphoma understand the condition, and to manage their cancer treatment. Provides the user with information on lymphoma tailored to the condition's subtypes. Allows symptoms to be tracked, with weekly or monthly overviews. Medication schedule can be managed with reminders. Results of blood tests can be charted. Queries can be drafted and saved for discussion with the doctor. Allows notes (including to-do lists) to be drafted during consultations with doctors, for later review. Content can be emailed to carers and doctors. Provides access to theLymphoma Research Foundation's helpline, patient support network, andpatient-education programmes.
FoodSwitch| FoodSwitch Information to help a person with lymphoma understand the condition, and to manage their cancer treatment. Uses the smartphones camera (autofocus camera lenses required) to scan the barcodes of supermarket food. Rates each food item for its contents of four criteria (total fat; saturated fat; salt; sugar) on a simple traffic-light colour-coded scale (red for high, amber for moderate, and green for low). Suggests healthier alternatives after searching a database of foods created by researchers. Favourite foods can be saved as personalised shopping lists. The lists can be emailed to family or friends, or shared via Facebook or Twitter. The app is only available in three countries; in Australia, it can show nutritional information for 38,000 products; in New Zealand, for more than 8,000 products in New Zealand; and in the UK, for more than 90,000 products. Especially useful for people with coeliac disease or gluten intolerance, high blood pressure, heart disease, or kidney disease.
FoodSwitch New Zealand| FoodSwitch New Zealand Scans the barcodes of supermarket food; supplies nutritional information, and suggests healthier alternatives. Uses the smartphones camera (autofocus camera lenses required) to scan the barcodes of supermarket food. Rates each food item for its contents of four criteria (total fat; saturated fat; salt; sugar) on a simple traffic-light colour-coded scale (red for high, amber for moderate, and green for low). Suggests healthier alternatives after searching a database of foods created by researchers. Favourite foods can be saved as personalised shopping lists. The lists can be emailed to family or friends, or shared via Facebook or Twitter. The app is only available in three countries: the Australian version can show nutritional information for 38,000 products; this, the New Zealand version, for more than 8,000 products in New Zealand; and the UK version, for more than 90,000 products. Especially useful for people with coeliac disease or gluten intolerance, high blood pressure, heart disease, or kidney disease.
FoodSwitch UK| FoodSwitch UK Scans the barcodes of supermarket food; supplies nutritional information, and suggests healthier alternatives. Uses the smartphones camera (autofocus camera lenses required) to scan the barcodes of supermarket food. Rates each food item for its contents of four criteria (total fat; saturated fat; salt; sugar) on a simple traffic-light colour-coded scale (red for high, amber for moderate, and green for low). Suggests healthier alternatives after searching a database of foods created by researchers. Favourite foods can be saved as personalised shopping lists. The lists can be emailed to family or friends, or shared via Facebook or Twitter. The app is only available in three countries: the Australian version can show nutritional information for 38,000 products; the New Zealand version, for more than 8,000 products in New Zealand; and this, the UK version, for more than 90,000 products. Especially useful for people with coeliac disease or gluten intolerance, high blood pressure, heart disease, or kidney disease.
Fooducate| Fooducate Provides nutritional information on foods, with the aim of helping a user with diabetes to lose weight, and to managediet. Provides nutritional information on foods, with the aim of helping a user with diabetes to lose weight, and to managediet. The app relies on the smartphones camera to scan food-product bar codes. Products are graded according to nutritional value. Other details shown about each product include: serving sizes; percentage value of daily calorie intake; and levels of fat (trans- and saturated), cholesterol and sodium. Products can also be searched-for manually in the apps database of 200,000-plus foods. Information that can be shared with the app community for wider analysis includes: the users feedback on (or rankings of) products; personal suggestions for healthier alternatives; shopping lists created on the app; and designated new products.
FRAX| FRAX A tool to help people at risk of osteoporosis to calculate their bone fragility. A tool to help people at risk of osteoporosis to calculate their bone fragility.
Froogie| Froogie A family-focused app that aims to engage children and parents and help them make healthy food choices The app was developed by the patient organisation, the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada with the Canadian Institute of Health Research and the Dalhousie Healthy Populations Institute (HPI).
Gi BodyGuard from the CDHF| Gi BodyGuard from the CDHF A family-focused app that aims to engage children and parents and help them make healthy food choices Allows people with a digestive disorder to record and track factors relevant to their intestinal health, with the aim of recognising trends, and creating a summary of health information to be shared with the doctor during the next visit. Factors that can be recorded and tracked include: symptoms; pain (location and severity); food consumed; stool details (consistency, frequency, presence of blood); weight; exercise levels; medications taken; medical history. Offers reminders to take medications and to renew prescriptions.
GI Buddy| GI Buddy Health tracker for people withinflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Allows users withinflammatory bowel disease (IBD) to monitor the characteristics of their life relevant to their condition. Allows the following to be recorded: foods eaten; medication taken; and symptoms of IBD. Lifestyle and overall well-being can be monitored. Email reports of logged information can be shared with healthcare professionals.
Global Corporate Challenge| Global Corporate Challenge Designed to be used during the annual Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) walk, a virtual event intended to promote personal fitness and better health. Android app no longer seems available. Designed to be used during the annual Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) walk, a virtual event intended to promote personal fitness and better health. The app logs progress made in walking the virtual event by seconds, and by daily step totals (includes automatic syncing of steps taken). A virtual GCC journey contains location visuals and descriptions. Motivational tips and advice from the GCC coach are offered. The app requires the user to have a pedometer.
Glooko| Glooko Complementary logbook app that, when combined with the developers proprietary Sync cable, and various manufacturers compatible blood-glucose meters, saves a user with diabetes from having to manually enter blood-glucose readings. Complementary logbook app that, when combined with the developers proprietary Sync cable, and various manufacturers compatible blood-glucose meters, saves the user with diabetes from having to manually enter blood-glucose readings. After a user has connected their glucose meter via the Sync cable, the app will automatically sync data to its logbook. The logbook can accept readings from multiple meters, and combine data into one tracking format. Contextual tags can be assigned to readings, and the user can draw on the apps integrated food database to add nutritional information (including carbohydrate values) about consumed foods directly to readings. Multiple-view options allow trends to be tracked over timeframes. Data can be exported in CSV file for in-depth analysis, and a two-week or one-month PDF summary of the logbook can be emailed to healthcare professionals.
Glucagon| Glucagon Guide for people with diabetes (and their carers) in the emergency administration of the Eli Lilly product, Glucagon. Guide for people with diabetes (and their carers) in the emergency administration of the Eli Lilly product, Glucagon. A user can practice through touch-screen simulations in a step-by-step process. Onscreen animation tutorials with optional audio instruction provide hands-free guidance in an emergency. The locations of Glucagon kit and its expiration dates can be inputted, with reminders automatically alerting to when new kits should be obtained. Contains safety information on Glucagon for both healthcare professionals and patients. Important medical information can be inputted in the Notes section for review with a healthcare professional.
Glucool Diabetes Premium| Glucool Diabetes Premium Diabetes management app that allows blood glucose, blood pressure, body-mass index (BMI), carbohydrate intake, exercise, HbA1c, insulin and medication doses, and weight to be tracked. Diabetes management app that allows blood glucose, blood pressure, body-mass index (BMI), carbohydrate intake, exercise, HbA1c, insulin and medication doses, and weight to be tracked. Data (such as blood glucose, carbohydrates, insulin) can be inputted directly, or sourced via the apps insulin-dose calculator. Customisable information fields permit irrelevant information to be hidden, or out-of-range readings spotted. A user-programmable alarm system can highlight key moments (such as two hours after a meal). Functions with mg/dL and mmol/L units; lbs and kgs; inches and cms. The graphs and statistics generated can be emailed to carers and healthcare professionals. No longer seems available on Android. Seems to be available on Amazon. However Facebook page has not been updated since 2010.
Glucose Buddy| Glucose Buddy Data-storage utility for people with diabetes. Data-storage utility for people with diabetes. Users can manually enter glucose numbers, carbohydrate consumption, insulin dosages, and activities. Inputted data can be viewed on a free online account supplied by the app developer. Reminders can be scheduled with push notification. The app can be integrated with CalorieTrack (a diet-and-exercise tracking app produced by a different developer), to make logging food and exercise activities easier.
Glucose Companion Free| Glucose Companion Free Blood-sugar and weight tracker. Blood-sugar and weight tracker. The user can add and edit blood-sugar readings, including weight and test date. Blood sugar and weight can be tracked by chart. Times and percentage of each blood-sugar range can be analysed. Statistics of measurement can be shown by day, week, month, or year. Average blood sugar and weight can be calculated. A reminder for measuring glucose or visiting the doctor can be created. Password protected.
Glucose-Charter| Glucose-Charter Diabetes management app for recording and tracking blood glucose, food intake, insulin and medication. Diabetes management app for recording and tracking blood glucose, food intake, insulin and medication. The user is required to fill in basic personal details (such as date of birth, diabetes type, gender, height, and weight). Common diabetes medication (whether branded or generic) can be selected, or Other medications can be created. User-logged data can be customised with contextual notes, which are displayed on colour-coded graphs and summary tables. A food database provides nutritional information, including on carbohydrates, glycaemic index (GI), and glycaemic load (GL),found in categories, or searched for. Data is recorded in a diary format, which can optionally be set to automatically report to carers or healthcare professionals every 30 days. Password protected.
Grace - Picture Exchange for Non-Verbal People| Grace - Picture Exchange for Non-Verbal People Non-speaking, simple, picture-exchange system that can allow people with autism to express their needs independently. Non-speaking, simple, picture-exchange system that can allow people with autism to express their needs independently. Contains a basic vocabulary of pictures, which users select to form a sentence, communicating that by pointing at each picture card. A Category sort facility permits images to be added (taken with the phones camera, or stored photographs, or images saved from the Internet), deleted, or restored later. A Look card encourages shared attention.
H-Bookmark| H-Bookmark App for people living with HIV/AIDS. App for people living with HIV/AIDS. Provides a daily planner, with a schedule of appointments, consultations, tests, and treatments, and supplies notification of when events are due, and when medication must be taken. Issues reminders when medication is running low. Lists antiretroviral drugs, detailing properties and ingredients. A database of centres for infectious diseases in Italy can be searched by name, region or province. Also holds information on restrictions faced by people living with HIV/AIDS who travel to different countries in the world. A Help-me facility relies on the phones GPS to text friends and relatives of the exact location, if help is needed.
HabitRPG| HabitRPG Role-playing game (RPG) that offers the user virtual rewards for having good personal habits. Role-playing game (RPG) that motivates the user into having good personal habits by offering virtual rewards. Habits and tasks that need to be encouraged and carried out can be specified, as can be the bad habits that should be avoided (such as eating junk food, or smoking). Points are gained in the game by completing good tasks/habits, and health points lost if these tasks are not carried out properly, or if the user lapses into the bad habits. The game is played on successive levels, according to the success at completing the good personal habits.
HAE Attack Tracker| HAE Attack Tracker Symptom and treatment diary for people with hereditary angioedema (HAE). Symptom and treatment diary for people with the rare and potentially life-threatening swelling disorder, hereditary angioedema (HAE). Allows the user to record information about attacks, including warning signs and potential triggers, date, location on the body, length of time experienced, and treatment taken. Personal notes and photographs can be added to entries. The app charts the stored information over time, according to common attack triggers, location of attacks, frequency, and severity. Data can be emailed to the users doctor. The 911 emergency call button is USA-specific.
Headache Diary (ecoHeadache)| Headache Diary (ecoHeadache) Diary for people who have headaches, migraine, or ENT (ear, nose or throat) pain. Diary for people who have headaches, migraine, or ENT (ear, nose or throat) pain. Tracks pain levels, symptoms, potential triggers, level of disability, and medication taken. Allows start time, end time, and duration of pain to be recorded. Pain can be documented according to location, type, and on a scale of intensity. Varying severity of pain during the course of a headache can also be noted. Duplicate headachessimilar to those occurring beforecan have their details recorded by pressing a single button. Information about medication and other forms of therapy (time, dose, and effect) can be included. Statistics can show the user's recorded information according to the last day, week, fortnight, month, multiples of months, and annually. Medication reminders can be set. The database can be backed up and restored. Results can be exported to Excel, and emailed to a doctor. (ecoHeadache is one of the three highest-scoring headache apps assessed in Huguet; Hundert; McGrath; Stinson; and Wheaton, Commercially-available mobile-phone headache diary apps: a systematic review,
