Hemolog| Hemolog Infusion log for people with haemophilia. Infusion log for people with haemophilia. Allows a user to log and track infusions on the go. New infusion logs can be created and saved. The information can be emailed to a doctor or caregiver, or to the user, for saving as records.
OWise breast cancer| OWise breast cancer Through the application, you can receive information about breast cancer and wellbeing as well as giving tips as to topics to discuss with their doctor. Hearing that you have been diagnosed with breast cancer can turn your world upside down. The OWise breast cancer app can help you regain control during the chaotic times of illness and treatments, by supporting you through your experience post-diagnosis. You can record in real time experiences as you undergo treatment for cancer, including side-effects and overall quality of life. The information generated can also help support medical research. OWise takes particular care to exclude data that identifies individuals from its database. The app is CE-marked.
Psoriasis 360| Psoriasis 360 Contains a trio of facilities for people with psoriasis (and their carers): a calculator to assess the severity of the condition; a questionnaire on the impact of the condition; and a newsfeed on dermatology subjects. Contains a trio of facilities for people with psoriasis (and their carers): a calculator to assess the severity of the condition; a questionnaire on the impact of the condition; and a newsfeed on dermatology subjects. Also contains a Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) calculator for healthcare professionals specialising in psoriasis.
Epilepsy Action| Epilepsy Action App to support the management of epilepsy, including medication reminder. Keeps a track of seizures. Can share the information with health professionals via the web version. Has medicines reminders for epilepsy medication and non epilepsy medication.
Pillbox| Pillbox Reminder to take medications on time. Reminder to take medications on time. Allows a user totrackmedication consumption (includingthat of their family). A weekly overview shows the days on which medication has to be taken. Separate lists of medication for each family member can be kept. Each medication entered into the app can be linked to a database of information on the medication (Internet connection required).
My DisabledGo London| My DisabledGo London For people with a disability. Contains information about access arrangements in 20,000 locations around London. For people with a disability. Contains information about access arrangements in 20,000 locations around London. Major categories listed include: cinemas; colleges; council offices; sites of entertainment and culture; hotels and accommodation; hospitals; parks; restaurants, other food and drink outlets; retailshops; sports grounds; tourist attractions.
KidneyDiet| KidneyDiet Helps people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) make better decisions aboutdiet. Although available on Android, the developer's website http://www.kidneydiet.com/ states the app is no longer available or supported. Helps people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) make better decisions aboutdiet. Lists the nutritional counts of a variety of foods, with an emphasis on the fluid, phosphorus, potassium, protein, and sodium content suitable for people following a renal diet. Allows nutritional counts to be compared against the recommendations of doctors and nutritionalists. Information about foods can be manually added. Contains a Daily diary that can be emailed to a dietician.
Sorted: The daily organiser| Sorted: The daily organiser Day-to-day organiser for people withattention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), or anyone wishing to be more organised. Daily organiser for people withattention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), or anyone wishing to be more organised, whether day to day, or longer term. Allows daily tasks to be input, itemised, placed into order of priority, colour-coded, and arranged by deadline. Photographs and voice instructions allow extra emphasis or clarification to be added to tasks. The app generates a daily task list, and issues reminders about forthcoming tasks. Progress in fulfilling tasks can be tracked. The app produces incentives to remain organised, in the form of virtual achievement trophies and badges.
Stressheads| Stressheads App aimed at 16-25 years olds to help them manage stress, and identify what triggers it. Stressheads was co-created by a group of young volunteers, young persons charity The Mix,and developer Neon Tribe.
CatchMyPain - Pain Diary| CatchMyPain - Pain Diary A diary of pain felt by the user, to help explain the pain to doctors. A pain diary that allows the user to create colour-coded drawings of the location and intensity of the pain. Comments can be added. Details recorded include the time of the pain, the 'quality' of the pain (for example, sharp, or hot), and the user's overall happiness at the time of the pain. Graphs express the course of the pain's progression or withdrawal. The pain diary can be emailed to family, friends or healthcare providers, or saved as a PDF. A 'Pro' version is available for 2.49 [approximately 2.95; $4.05], which allows the exchange of best practice with other patients.
Asthma Coach| Asthma Coach Logs asthma activity, medicines, triggers, and peak-flow readings in diary and graph form. Logs asthma activity, medicines, triggers, and peak-flow readings in diary and graph form. Contains instructional videos, and a live March-November pollen feed.
Medipal| Medipal Improves doctor-patient communication by helping the useranswer questions that the healthcare provider wishes to put to them. Improves doctor-patient communication by helping the useranswer questions that the healthcare provider wishes to put to them. The idea is that the care provider, doctor, nurse, etc, creates a Medipal account for the user, enters into it questions that the user should answer (and specifies the occasion). At the right time, the app will remind the user to answer the questions. The app can be installed and tried out in a demo mode, without having an active Medipal account, so that the user can get an idea of how it works. Information sent to, and from, the phone is encrypted, as is data stored on it.
Beat Bleeds| Beat Bleeds App to help people with haemophilia to set goals, track bleed rates and locations, and get treatment reminders. Track for prophylactic and on-demand treatment.
Pain Care| Pain Care Tool to help patients manage chronic pain or sports injuries. Tool to help patients manage chronic pain or sports injuries. Allows the user to track medications, side effects, symptoms of pain, and triggers. After the journal has been kept for sometime, the app will estimate the cause of the pain, and consider the efficacy of treatment/medication options. Provides an automatic natural-language summary of the patient history, with analytic charts designed to fit into the decision-making workflow of pain specialists (making personalised treatment options easier for doctors to create). Data can be shared with a doctor securely via the Internet.
Calorie Counter and kJ Counter PRO by MyNetDiary| Calorie Counter and kJ Counter PRO by MyNetDiary Weight- and nutrition-management app that allows dietary goals to be set. Weight- and nutrition-management app that allows dietary goals to be set. Links online to the developers database of nutritional details about 450,000 foods (up to 35 components per food, including carbohydrates, cholesterol, fat, fibre, protein, sodium, sugars, and vitamins), which the user can update via smartphone photos. The database can be searched manually, or by the built-in barcode scanner. Food listings display serving sizes in cups, grams or ounces. The offline version of the food database is much smaller. Favourites can be saved, and recipes created. The app also lists 500 exercises, and calculates calorie-consumption rate during exercise (based on weight). Custom exercises can be added. The app calculates body-mass index, and various targets (including calories, carbohydrates, fat, protein, and weight-maintenance calories), based on age, gender, height, personal activity level, and weight. Blood sugars can be logged, as well as blood pressure, daily steps taken, and hours of sleep and work. Progress in both exercising and eating healthily can be tracked in an array of formats, showing metrics against goal charts. The developers website, 'mynetdiary.com', provides access to an online community, Twitter integration, and in-depth reporting functions (registration required). Entries made in offline mode sync upon connecting to the Web.
Heart Decide| Heart Decide Shows '3D' animations of the heart, heart conditions, and heart treatments. Shows 3D animations of the anatomy of the heart, of heart conditions, and offers surgical videos of heart treatments and surgical procedures. Intended as a tool that allows medical professionals to distribute educational material to patients about their heart conditionbut also of value to interested patients (such as this apps reviewer). An in-app monthly or annual subscription allows access to tools of relevance only to medical professionals (including the ability to draw upon and annotate images, add photos and video, and to email information).
Brain S3D HD| Brain S3D HD Tool for viewing the brain in 3D. Tool for viewing the structure of the brain, with a great level of realism, in 3D. Based onhistological sections of healthy brain, the app displays the amygdaloid body, corpus callosum,hippocampus, and many other elements of the brain. A user can study these componentsfrom any viewpoint.
BlueStar Diabetes| BlueStar Diabetes Provides immediate guidance and coaching to adults with type 2 diabetes after entering blood glucose or medication data. Helps track and calculate carbs and calculate medications. Helps track medications. Launched in 2013. Provides immediate guidance and coaching to adults with type 2 diabetes after entering blood glucose or medication data. Helps track and calculate carbs and calculate medications. Helps track medications. A physician must write a prescription for the app. The app is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, as a Mobile Prescription Therapy (MPT) product. MPT products must show in clinical trials that they are safe and help people improve their health. They must also keep your health information private.
Shifting Perspectives| Shifting Perspectives A collection of the work of 12 photographers who have a connection with Downs syndrome, and a photographic representation of people with Downs syndrome. A collection of the work of 12 photographers who have a connection with Downs syndrome, and a photographic representation of people with Downs syndrome.
Diamedic| Diamedic Diabetes logbook that allows a user to record and monitor blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, exercise regimes, glucose readings, insulin injections, lab results, medication, pulse, temperature, weight, and other vital statistics. Diabetes logbook that allows a user to record and monitor blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, exercise regimes, glucose readings, insulin injections, lab results, medication, pulse, temperature, weight, and other vital statistics. The user can either select built-in categories of exercises, insulin types, or medications, or create personal preferences. Glucose periods (such as Before breakfast; After Breakfast) can be indicated, or new contextual notes can be assigned to readings. Readings can be formatted in mg/dL or mmol/L, and weight in kilograms, pounds or stones. A dosage calculator and medication-refill calculators predict refill requirements based on the previous 30 days (dependant on user input). Data displayed in multiple formats can be shared with carers or healthcare professionals via email, or exchanged with any FTP file server.
Headspace (on-the-go)| Headspace (on-the-go) Helps the user to learn meditation. Click on browser link to see how Headspace works or go tohttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kEpOF7vUymc Helps the user to learn meditation. Contains 10 daily guided meditations, plus meditations on the subjects of eating, mindfulness, public transport, sleep, stress, and walking. Meditations can be downloaded for offline use, to avoid roaming charges. Day-to-day progress can be tracked, and reminders set. Also contains motivational animations and illustrations.
IMood Journal| IMood Journal Diary for recording moods. Diary in which the user can record personal moods with the aim of identifying trends, or even underlying medical conditions. Allows thoughts, experiences, emotions and overall wellbeing to be logged. Associations between moods and experiences can be established, and patterns of moods recognised. The history of records can be browsed. Medications and sleep can be tracked.Provides reminders when entries are due to be made.Moods recorded can be shared with friends on Facebook. Records can be exported to PDF.
AVC| AVC Provides information on recognising signs of a stroke, and techniques of assistance. Provides information on recognising signs of a stroke, and techniques of assistance. Also allows donations to be made to France-based patient group, France Accident Vasculaire Crbral (AVC).
ActiveME| ActiveME Intended to help people with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) track and monitor their daily activity levels. Intended to help people with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) track and monitor their daily activity levels. A user picks from four activity grades, and can then record each personal activity (in terms of energy level) on a daily calendar and graph. The app analyses patterns in personal energy levels. Notes can be added in an Energy diary. Activity patterns can be reviewed, and standards set. Allows the user to develop a daily baseline of energy levels, suitable for increasing in regular steps. Weekly charts can be emailed in PDF (perhaps to a doctor, or to a carer).
Liverpool HIV iChart| Liverpool HIV iChart Provides people with HIV/AIDs with up-to-date information on potential drug interactions between HIV drugs and other drugs that the individual may be prescribed (also covers over-the-counter, recreational, and alternative medications). Provides people with HIV/AIDs with up-to-date information on potential drug interactions between HIV drugs and other drugs that the individual may be prescribed (also covers over-the-counter, recreational, and alternative medications). Results are presented as a traffic-light system of red, amber, or green. A brief summary of the interaction is given, along with a grading of the quality of evidence (very low; low; moderate; or high). The app is offline after being downloaded to the users device, and does not need an Internet connection during operation (except to download regular updates).
About Herbs| About Herbs Contains the contents of 200-plus articles on herbs and complementary therapies. Contains the contents of 200-plus articles on herbs, food supplements, and complementary therapies, all held offline by the app. Describes the structure of each of the compounds, its uses, and any adverse effects and drug interactions. Illustrations included. Each article is in two versions; one for members of the public, and one for healthcare professionals. A search function operates by product name or by medical condition. Favourites can be saved. Updated weekly with new information. Content can be shared by emailing.
WebMD| WebMD Contains informational tools that can guide a user in making decisions about personal health. Contains informational tools that can guide a user in making decisions about personal health. A symptom checker aids in identifying potential conditions or health issues. Medically-reviewed information about conditions is available. Contains a database on drugs, supplements, and vitamins, with details about usage, side effects, warnings, etc. A pill identifier helps the user recognise prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medicines by colour, imprint, and pill shape. Custom lists of drugs and conditions can be created. One of the apps facilities is only of value in the United States: the app lists healthcare providers in that country (doctors, hospitals, and pharmacies, etc).
Plume Air Report| Plume Air Report Tracks pollution levels of cities and how these levels might evolve in the next hours. Tracks 200 cities worldwide. The app tells you how fresh or polluted the air is in a city hour by hour, on a scale of 1-7: from fresh air to airpocalypse. Helps answer questions like: Is it the best time to go for a run?; When should I go for a walk in the park with my children? Will forecast pollution levels as well.
Colonoscopy Prep Assistant| Colonoscopy Prep Assistant Designed for people with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), such as Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, and who are scheduled to receive a colonoscopy. Designed for people with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), such as Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, and who are scheduled to receive a colonoscopy. Helps a user keep track of the time between the drinks of liquid laxative taken in advance of the procedure. Aidsin the task of remembering how many such drinks have been taken. Specifies between a certain number of glasses and until finished. Additional features for the app are in a preparatory stage.
Medeo| Medeo Allows the user to have a live video consultation with a general practitioner Allows the user to receive a live video consultation with their own, or another, general practitioner. The user can be referred to another doctor (general practitioner or specialist).Other servicesinclude counseling, prescriptions, and lab requisitions. A care plan is created, recording the user'shealthcare interactions with Medeo. Patients can use Medeo on Facebook to connect with other patients. Older people can choose to access medeo through the Clarice Companion, a tablet designed for oldwer people's healthcare needs. The Medeo app is free to download, but its services are only available for free to patients in British Columbia who have the appropriate medical coverage (Medical Services Plan). Other patients need to pay by credit card for their e-consultation.
Exsmokers iCoach| Exsmokers iCoach Self-help, step-by-step programme for quitting smoking. Self-help, step-by-step programme for quitting smoking. A personalised programme is produced for the user, based on the answers the user gives to an initial questionnaire. The app analyses the user's smoking behaviour, and offers daily advice, feedback and tips. A 'panic' button can be pressed if the desire to smoke becomes overwhelming. Registration required with the free online digital health-coaching platform iCoach before use of the app (400,000 registered users by end-2013).
iRecordit Diabetes Sugar Glucose and Health Tracker| iRecordit Diabetes Sugar Glucose and Health Tracker Diabetes-management and personal-health app that allows a user to record and track personal health-related information. Diabetes-management and personal-health app that allows a user to record and track personal health-related information, including: blood pressure; blood sugar/glucose; cholesterol; exercise;general notes; lab results; medications; nutrition; and weight.
Vacunas 3.0| Vacunas 3.0 Provides information on vaccines and vaccination. Provides information on vaccines and vaccination. Recommends which vaccines are needed before travel to a particular country. Content can be emailed. GPS locator of vaccination centres is Spanish-specific.
Calorie Counter by FatSecret| Calorie Counter by FatSecret Allows a user to find nutritional information about food, and to track meals, exercise and weight. Allows a user to find nutritional information about food, and to track meals, exercise and weight. Favourite foods, brands and restaurants can be accessed with a Quick pick facility. Various diaries include a food diary (to plan and track food eaten); an exercise diary (to record calories burned); a diet calendar (to see calories consumed and burned); a weight tracker; and a progress journal. Also contains a barcode scanner and recipes.
Self Help for iPad| Self Help for iPad Series of self-help guides on common mental-health issues. Note despite the name the app is also available on the Android platform. 23 self-help guides written by clinical psychologists (with input from patients) on common mental-health issues. Subjects covered include abuse, alcohol, anger, anxiety, depression, domestic violence, eating disorders, panic, postnatal depression, shyness, and sleeping difficulties. The guides contain hints, tips, and self-help techniques, and they also carry pen-and-paper exercises which users can complete in their own time.Each guide opens with a video that can be downloaded free of charge (choice of male or female narrators). The guides can be read offline, or printed. Some of the guides are available in British Sign Language (BSL). The app aims to make people more aware of their own mental-health issues, and to provide advice and support.
Macleans Nurdle Time| Macleans Nurdle Time Motivational app to help young children learn to brush their teeth. Motivational app to aid young children in the task of learning to brush their teeth. A tune helps the children concentrate on brushing. A timer counts down the two-minute recommended brushing time. Completed brushes earn 'stars' that can be redeemed to dress a virtual 'Nurdle' doll.
MyTalkTools Mobile| MyTalkTools Mobile Allows a user to communicate through audio files, images, pictures, symbols, and video(one adult female voice) by touching an image, which the app then reads out. Allows a user to communicate through audio files, images, pictures, symbols, and video (one adult female voice) by touching an image, which the app then reads out. Aimed particularly at children with special needs.
Lyfe| Lyfe App with practical information for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma The Lyfe app was created by the worldwide network of lymphoma patient groups, the Lymphoma Coalition.
eTangram| eTangram Utilises Tangram, a Chinese game in which several shapes can be assembled to make larger shapes, to teach a user how to make more complex shapes (such as a rabbit) in several levels of difficulty. Utilises Tangram, a Chinese game in which several shapes can be assembled to make larger shapes, to teacha user how to make more complex shapes (such as a rabbit) in several levels of difficulty. Particularly relevant to people with memory problems. According to the app developer: 'The app is useful to different types of people, including older people. It works at exercising manual dexterity and cognitive ability, so it could even be used by children. Ultimately what is sought is an improved quality of life. Furthermore, the use of these technologies can be advantageous therapies within the healthcare system, because these tools make the patient dependency less. We are also developing a cloud version that allows the information generated to be queried by tutors or medical professionals.'
Argus - Pedometer, Run, Cycle| Argus - Pedometer, Run, Cycle Health-and-fitness monitor for walking, running, cycling, sleeping, calorie and liquid intake, and heart rate. Health-and-fitness monitor for walking, running, cycling, sleeping, calorie and liquid intake, and heart rate. Counts number of steps taken, and is able to automatically distinguish when the user is walking or running. Keeps a tally of heart beats via the phones camera and an LED flash. It also calculates calories consumed, and amount of time spent asleep (though it does not analyse sleep quality or offer suggestions on how to improve sleep). Allows daily goals to be set for number of steps, amount of sleep, calories eaten, and fluids drunk, and reminds the user after these goals are reached. Relies on GPS to map running and cycling (and even driving). Historical trends can be observed. A food diary of meals consumed can be built up, with added photographs. Each activity can be made public via Facebook (whether to selected individuals, or a wider audience). The app syncs via Bluetooth to the $99.99 wristband of another manufacturer, Salutron Incs LifeTrak Zone C410 activity tracker, displaying the information recorded by the band in a more graphic and accessible series of formats than is possible on the bands small display.
iStayHealthy| iStayHealthy Medication reminder aimed at people living with HIV/AIDS. Medication reminder aimed at people living with HIV/AIDS. Allows the user to store test results in simple charts. Records other medications, details of illnesses or infections, missed medication, side effects. Viral load for hepatitis-C co-infections can be recorded. Results can be emailed. Password protected.
iBP Blood Pressure| iBP Blood Pressure Blood pressure tracking-and-analysis tool. Blood pressure tracking-and-analysis tool. Uses colour icons to indicate when blood pressure values are normal, high, or at hypertension. Interactive graphs display valuesby weeks, months, years, and time of day, andshow lows, highs, averages, and trend lines, using statistical analysis. Data input relies on dials, instead of a keyboard. Also tracks one personal item (such as blood glucose, exercise time, medication dosage, stress level, etc). Has a backup/restore capability. Password protected. Note that the app does not incorporate facilities for measuring blood pressure.
British Sign Language - Finger Spelling| British Sign Language - Finger Spelling Helps a user learn the British Sign Language (BSL) alphabet. Helps a user learn the British Sign Language (BSL) alphabet. Shows simply and clearly the hand indication for each letter.
Speed Anatomy Lite (Quiz)| Speed Anatomy Lite (Quiz) Game that shows images of parts of the human body, and is intended to test knowledge of anatomy. Game that shows images of parts of the human body, and is intended to test knowledge of anatomy. Points are awarded for precision and speed. Scores can be compared with friends on Facebook. Practice mode allows the user to learn about components of the body without having to attempt previous levels. Review mode replays mistakes previously made. The full, payable, version lists 300 illustrated sections of the body. Called Speed Bones MD on Android, and Speed Anatomy on Apple.
FactorTrack| FactorTrack Helps to track and record haemophilia-A factor-VIII infusions. Helps to track and record haemophilia-A factor-VIII infusions. For users on a prophylaxis regimen. The app issues infusion reminders, making the task of remembering when to infuse easier. Allows the infusion schedule to be customised to the prescribed regimen. Doses, infusions, lot numbers, and notes related to the location of bleeds can be recorded and tracked. Infusion history may be viewed and filtered. Other facilities on the app include: ability to change from a prophylaxis to an on-demand user; ability to edit past infusions; alerts for missed infusions; and an optional news service from the developer.
Pocket A1c| Pocket A1c Simple, one-page, slide-bar app that allows a user to convert A1c level to estimated average blood-glucose level, and vice-versa. Simple, one-page, slide-bar app that allows a user to convert A1c level to estimated average blood-glucose level, and vice-versa. Intended to help convert A1c percentages into values more familiar to a person with diabetes. Displays both mg/dL and mmol/L units.
SunSmart| SunSmart Sun protection tool. Sun protection tool. Provides daily information on local ultraviolet (UV) levels. A vitamin-D tracker helps a user see whether enough UV exposure is being received for optimum vitamin-D levels. Functional in Australia only. Also available as a Samsung app. Information is provided by the Australian government's Bureau of Meterology.
Color ID (Free)| Color ID (Free) When a userphotographs an object, and then taps the on-screen image of the photographed object, the app will read aloudthe object's colour. When a user photographs an object, and then taps the on-screen image of the photographed object, the app will read aloud the object's colour. Useful for people with colour blindness or sight problems.
Platemate| Platemate Tool for visualising the carbohydrate and calorie content of meals. Tool that allows the user to visually lay out each meal in on-screen imageryin the process, calculatingcarbohydrate and calorie content, fat content, fibre and protein content, and blood-sugar levels. A database of 300-plus products can be searched to create the on-screen meals. Information about each meal can be stored as a logbook, and emailed to the user's healthcare professional.
Period Tracker| Period Tracker Tracks and predicts periods. Tracks and predicts periods Tracks the dates of periods, and relies upon a history of recent menstrual cycles to predict the date of the next period. Shows present and forthcoming period dates, ovulation, and fertile days. Records personal information (including medical symptoms, moods, weight, temperature, sexual activity) in the form of symbols. Period dates and personal notes can be sent to the users doctor. The apps symbol on the home screen of the phone can be customised (for the purpose of discretion).
DevContacts| DevContacts App that aims to put a human face to worldwide aid and poverty statistics, and to demonstrate progress towards United Nations (UN) Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). App that aims to put a human face to worldwide aid and poverty statistics, and to demonstrate progress towards United Nations (UN) Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Assigns each person listed in the users phone address book to one of 130-plus countries, and builds an imaginary scenario of the person's new 'life', as if they had been born and raised in that country. Brings interest-value to information from the World Banks Data Catalog, and lists UN-sourced details for each countrys progress against the MDGs.
Headache Diary Lite| Headache Diary Lite Diary for people who wish to record details linked to their headaches or migraines. Headache diary that allows factors linked to the onset of headaches or migraines to be recorded. Details that can be recorded include date and time, duration, type of headache, location of pain (severity), known triggers, the effects of the headache on the users daily routine, the medication taken, and the responses to it. The charts, which summarise a historical list of headaches by severity, can be exported into Excel. The Pro version holds more features and charts than the Lite version, is more customisable, has automatic back up, and contains no advertisements. The Lite version is limited to 10 entries, and thus can be said to function mainly as an introduction to the Pro version. (The Pro version is one of the three highest-scoring headache apps assessed in Huguet; Hundert; McGrath; Stinson; and Wheaton, Commercially-available mobile-phone headache diary apps: a systematic review,
Beat Panic [FullKontrol in Norwegian]| Beat Panic [FullKontrol in Norwegian] Designed to guide a user through a panic attack, or through an episode of raised anxiety. Designed to guide a user through a panic attack, or through an episode of raised anxiety. Displays a series of flash cards in soothing colours. Intended especially for use away from home (but can also be used in the home setting). Aims to help the user focus thoughts, slow breathing, reduce heart rate, and release tension.
Stop Panic & Anxiety Self-Help| Stop Panic & Anxiety Self-Help Intended for people whose panic attacks are due to panic disorder (not suitable for other forms of anxiety). Intended for people whose panic attacks are due to panic disorder (not suitable for other forms of anxiety). Contains the following features: articles about panic, anxiety and cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT); an Anxiety thought diary, to help the user learn to challenge fearful thinking; an Emotion training audio, to direct the user into learning to access calming states; Relaxation audios, to encourage relaxation; and a Panic assistance audio, to coach the user through panic attacks. Password protection available. Audios are downloaded from 'ExcelAtLife.com'.
MedWatcher| MedWatcher Allows a user to report anyside effects of drugs, medical devices, and vaccines. Allows a user to report anyside effects of drugs, medical devices, and vaccines to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Users can upload photographs of medical devices to help identify visible problems with the device (such as breakage or corrosion). Users can alsotrack latest safety updates from the FDA on drugs of interest, and read relevant news stories about the drugs.MedWatcher has a database ofover 10,000 medications. Any personal information sent to the FDA is treated in confidence.
Med Helper  Pill Reminder and Medication Tracker| Med Helper  Pill Reminder and Medication Tracker Medication reminder. Medication reminder. Medication reminder. Tracks both prescription medicines that need to be taken regularly, and take-as-needed medicines. Holds numerous categories of information about each of a users medicines, including name of medicine, instructions on how to take, side effects, reaction, and what needs to be taken with the medicine. A schedule shows the start date of the medicine, any end date, dosage required, and time of day to be taken. An inventory shows the quantity of medicine left, and details on the next batch needed. Reminders can be set for a number of events, including times when medicines need to be taken, appointment times with medical professionals, low supplies of medicines, and medicines about to expire. Reports on medicine compliance can be sent to a medical professional. Profiles can be created for family members, etc.
BloodPressureDB| BloodPressureDB Allows a user to record in chart form systolic and diastolic blood pressure, pulse and weight. Allowsa user to record in chart form systolic and diastolic blood pressure, pulse and weight. Comments can be added.
Focus on Lymphoma| Focus on Lymphoma Information to help a person with lymphoma understand the condition, and to manage their cancer treatment. Provides the user with information on lymphoma tailored to the condition's subtypes. Allows symptoms to be tracked, with weekly or monthly overviews. Medication schedule can be managed with reminders. Results of blood tests can be charted. Queries can be drafted and saved for discussion with the doctor. Allows notes (including to-do lists) to be drafted during consultations with doctors, for later review. Content can be emailed to carers and doctors. Provides access to theLymphoma Research Foundation's helpline, patient support network, andpatient-education programmes.
VizWiz| VizWiz Allows a visually-impaired user to put specific questions to sighted people, and then receive spoken answers from them in nearly real-time (sometimes in less than 30 seconds). Allows a visually-impaired user to put specific questions to sighted people, and then receive spoken answers from them in nearly real-time (sometimes in less than 30 seconds). The sight-impaired user takes a picture with their phone, speaks a short question to the 'human cloud' on social networks, and then, hopefully, receives answers from sighted individuals (some of them volunteers). The user can also try sending the photo to an IQ engine, which attempts to recognise the content of photos (automatic image processing), or post the picture and question on Twitter.
Rally Round - organise jobs and helpers| Rally Round - organise jobs and helpers Allows carers, family and friends to form a network, keeping in touch to arrange the care of a person or patient who needs help. Already available to 7 million people in the UK. Allows carers, family and friends to form a network, keeping in touch to arrange the care of a person or patient who needs help. Emails reminders of tasks due.
T2 Mood Tracker| T2 Mood Tracker Allows people withanxiety, brain injury, depression, post-traumatic stress, or stressto monitor their moods and their general well-being. Allows people withanxiety, brain injury, depression, post-traumatic stress, or stress to monitor their moods and their general well-being. A user rates moods on pre-set or custom scales, with ratings displayed on graphs to helptrack moods over time. Daily events, medication changes, and treatments associated with mood changes can be recorded as notes, to help medical professionals suggest treatment decisions.
See and Learn Saying More Words| See and Learn Saying More Words Aimed at helping children with Down syndrome improve their speech development. Aimed at helping the parents, teachers and therapists of children with Down syndrome to encourage the children to improve their speech development. Encourages children to copy and repeat spoken simple words in a step-by-step process that is believed to be of assistance to children with speech problems. Offers colour pictures intended to prompt children to speak, with pre-recorded voice prompts in a choice of either UK English or US English accent. May also be of help to children who do not have Down syndrome, but who have similar speech problems.
Nike+ Running| Nike+ Running Allows runs to be mapped, and progress tracked. Allows runs to be mapped, and progress tracked. Intended to offer motivation to runners. The app relies on the phones GPS and accelerometer to record a runners distance, pace, and time. In-run audio feedback relates these metrics at every mile. A Run Summary, with one-mile splits, shows the route taken, along with details of the terrain and weather. Progress can be seen in a bar-graph historical view of runs taken.
DrugStars| DrugStars App that rewards patients for taking their medicines correctly, by making donations to patient organisations The DrugStar app enables patients in Denmark to:
Qcard| Qcard Tool that helps people remember, and manage and organise their lives. Tool that helps people remember, and manage and organise their lives. Re-usable Qcard reminders can be created in the app by shaking the phone. Each colour-coded Qcard can be tagged with a necessary activity (such as taking medication), and a scheduled time. Alerts remind the user of listed activities that fall due. Completed Qcards are stamped and archived; deleted Qcards vanish. Step-by-step Guided tasks conduct the user through prolonged tasks. Aimed in particular at people with ADHD, Alzheimers, amnesia, brain injury, or dementia.
Lift Pulse| Lift Pulse Records the extent of a user's tremor via the smartphone's accelerometer. Records the extent of a user's tremor via the smartphone's accelerometer.For people with Parkinsons, orthostatic tremor (OT), and other forms of tremor. Monitors a tremor over a ten-second period, sensing tremors from all directions. Calculates the amount of tremor, and compares it to a pre-set baseline.
Tap Tap| Tap Tap Vibrates the phone to alert a user who is deaf (or hearing impaired) that a sound which might be relevant to them is occurring nearby(for instance, someone might be calling out to them). Vibrates the phone to alert a user who is deaf (or hearing impaired) that a sound which might be relevant to them is occurring nearby (for instance, someone might be calling out to them). Sensitivity can be adjusted to cope with noisier or quieter environments. The number of vibrations delivered by the app can be set. Can be disabled for sleep mode. The app does not have voice- or speech-recognition capabilities; it is designed to vibrate and flash in response to loud sounds in the environment.
Dragon in the Attic| Dragon in the Attic An App for 8 - 12 year old boys and girls to help them mentally cope with bullying. Dragon in the Attic is a mental health app centred on anti-bullying ideas. It is a fun, re-playable, game for 8 - 12 year old boys and girls about health and wellbeing choices which give players greater awareness and confidence, by getting kids to look after a dragon in an attic. Note: to play, users must first register. Wakefield wellbeing Ltd, a network of GP practices, collects and manages the data and assures the users privacy.
St John First Responder| St John First Responder App enabling qualified first aiders to sign up as a first responder to be notified when someone has called an ambulance within 500 metres of their current location. The St John First Responder app was developed by
ITP Pocket Log| ITP Pocket Log App to support people with immune thrombocytopenia At timing of writing an android version is planned.
H-Bookmark| H-Bookmark App for people living with HIV/AIDS. App for people living with HIV/AIDS. Provides a daily planner, with a schedule of appointments, consultations, tests, and treatments, and supplies notification of when events are due, and when medication must be taken. Issues reminders when medication is running low. Lists antiretroviral drugs, detailing properties and ingredients. A database of centres for infectious diseases in Italy can be searched by name, region or province. Also holds information on restrictions faced by people living with HIV/AIDS who travel to different countries in the world. A Help-me facility relies on the phones GPS to text friends and relatives of the exact location, if help is needed.
mediLexicon| mediLexicon Collection of over 2,500 medical terms,explained and cross-referenced. Collection of over 2,500 medical terms, explained and cross-referenced. The user can look up a word (even if only a few characters of the spelling is known) with a search feature. The dictionary can also be browsed through the alphabetical index.
UV-Indeks| UV-Indeks Indicates the ultra-violet (UV) levels in Denmark and many other countries. Indicates the daily ultra-violet (UV) levels in Denmark and in many other countries. Shows UV levels at 3-hour intervals each day. Forecasts UV levels 5 days ahead. UV levels can be either for a favourite location (such as home), or, when moving about, through GPS. An alarm can be set to warn of high UV levels. Created as part of the Sun Campaign of the Krftens Bekmpelse [Danish Cancer Society].
SiDiary| SiDiary Diabetes logbook for recording and tracking blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, and medication. Diabetes logbook for recording and tracking blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, and medication. The app can function stand-alone, or synchronise data with the developers PC version, SDiary Online, which can download readings from the users blood-glucose meter, blood-pressure meter, insulin pump, or pedometer. The user can manually input via a numeric keypad, from which the data is then arranged into a diary format, and can be tracked in the Statistics tab. This tab allows the user to review data (including A1c levels) in line graphs, modal day, or pie charts. Trend analysis can display specified time periods of days, weeks, and months. Blood-glucose values can be entered in mg/dL or mmol/L; body weight can be entered in kg or lbs; and carbohydrates can be entered in grams or other units. Languages can be selected via the phones settings.
Fear of Flying App| Fear of Flying App Aims to help the user overcome fear of flying. Aims to help the user overcome fear of flying. Provides information and tips about what to do to reduce the levels of fear before, and during, a trip. Gives factual details about what happens during take-off, cruising and landing, and discusses in-flight turbulence. An audio version of a relaxation exercise is included, and a Panic button supplies therapy techniques. Can be used during a flight with the phone in airplane mode. An Internet connection is not needed after initial download of the app. Entitled Flight App VALK on Android, and Fear of Flying App on English-language iTunes.
Alphabet Tracing| Alphabet Tracing Displays letters of the alphabet, words and numbers which children (including those with learning disabilities) can trace over, to help in learning to write. Displays letters of the alphabet, words and numbers which children (including those with learning disabilities) can trace over, to help in learning to write. Tracing worksheets can be created. Add-on purchases can be turned off.
Sussex Air| Sussex Air Up-to-date details on pollution levels across the county of Sussex, England. Up-to-date details on pollution levels across the county of Sussex, England. PUSH notifications signal when pollution levels reach moderate or high. Individual locations can be checked forperformance each year in relation to air-quality objectives. Integrated with Google Maps, including Locate me, satellite and hybrid views, and postcode search.
Model Me Going Places 2| Model Me Going Places 2 Teaching tool that utilises slideshows and images to illustrate appropriate behaviour in social settings (such as shops or playgrounds). Teaching tool that utilises slideshows and images to illustrate appropriate behaviour in social settings (such as shops or playgrounds). Aimed at children with autism or Asperger's.
Cognitive Diary CBT Self-Help| Cognitive Diary CBT Self-Help Aims to teach the user self-help tools of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) as a means of challenging irrational thinking that might otherwise lead to anger, anxiety, depression, relationship conflict, or stress. Aims to teach the user self-help tools of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) as a means of challenging irrational thinking that might otherwise lead to anger, anxiety, depression, relationship conflict, or stress. Can customise a list of emotions/moods, and can add personal coping statements to a list of challenges. Allows the users history of recorded events to be reviewed. Password protected. The apps methods are claimed to be shown in psychological research as effective in changing behaviour, emotions, and moods.
Cochrane Library, The| Cochrane Library, The Up-to-date healthcare information from the UK-based Cochrane Library. Provides up-to-date healthcare information from the UK-based Cochrane Library. All content is free, and includes abstracts, reviews and summaries. Information can be read, podcasts listened to, and videos viewed. Articles, figures, images, and tables can all be bookmarked. Content can be read offline.New data is downloaded regularly.
RheumaTrack| RheumaTrack Helps people with rheumatism monitor their condition. Helps people with rheumatism monitor their condition. Personal facts (for example, inability to work, morning stiffness, times of infection, etc) can be recorded and tracked. Allows the development of the condition to be tested with a functional-ability assessment questionnaire of symptoms (Funktionsfragebogen Hannover, FFbH). Pain levels can be logged in a Pain diary (pain scale based on the Visual Analogue Scale, VAS). Represents rheumatism by means of a tracing development, lists, or calendars. Notes can be taken. Issues reminders of due dates to collect replacement medications.
myIBD| myIBD Aims to provide the user with new perspectives on the task of managing inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Aims to provide the user with new perspectives on the task of managing inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Allows the recording of important personal healthcare information, including appetite, mood, pain, and visits to the lavatory. Entries can be viewed as a graph, or as text. The app also contains information about IBD.
coldAlert| coldAlert Alerts people in Sussex, England, about the expected arrival of cold weather. An alert service that provides warnings of imminent cold weather in the county of Sussex, England. Intended for carers, health professionals, and for people especiallyvulnerable to the cold (such as older people, and people with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). The alerts are sent by email, text, or voicemail messages to home phones. Information supplied includes details on the expected severity of the cold weather. Registration on thecoldAlert website is necessary to receive push notifications.
NCT Babychange| NCT Babychange Directs parents of babies to the nearest public baby-changing facilities in the UK. Directs parents of babies to the nearest public baby-changing facilities in the UK. Relies on GPS and Google Maps. Green pins indicate facilities currently believed to be in operation; amber pins indicate facilities that may be out of action. Selecting one of the 7,000 listed facilities will bring up its name and hygiene rating. Further selection will show a full address and location details. After visiting a facility, the user can help other parents by confirming whether it is still publicly available, and rate it on a one-to-five star scale for hygiene. Unlisted baby-changing facilities can be posted at any time after visiting them.
MindShift| MindShift Aims to help teens and young adults cope with anxiety. Aims to help teens and young adults cope with stress and anxiety by facing it, rather than avoiding it. Lists symptoms of anxiety. Offers strategies to manage worry, panic, conflict, ordinary anxiety, and three specialised categories of anxiety: test anxiety, social anxiety, and perfectionism. Also contains relaxation exercises.
Tinnitus Balance| Tinnitus Balance Phonak is designed to help tinnitus sufferers find and create the sounds that work best to mask or suppress their tinnitus. Phonak is designed to help tinnitus sufferers find and create the sounds that work best to mask or suppress their tinnitus. Phonak, which is also the brand name for a number of wireless devices, is intended to be part of a tinnitus management program provided by a qualified hearing care professional familiar with the diagnosis and management of tinnitus. Note that there are a number of tinnitus relief apps available and a full list can be found at https://www.actiononhearingloss.org.uk/community/forums/tinnitus.aspx?g=posts&t=11655
QuitSTART| QuitSTART Smoking-cessation app that allows moods and cravings for a cigarette to be recorded. QuitSTART is a product of Smokefree Teen (SfT)a smoking cessation resource for teens created by the Tobacco Control Research Branch at the National Cancer Institute in collaboration with tobacco control professionals and smoking cessation experts and with input from ex-smokers. Smoking-cessation app that allows the user to record moods and cravings for a cigarette. Tracks smoking-cessation performance in graphs and in a history list. Helps in the identification of factors that trigger the desire to smoke. Offers tips for moments when the temptation to smoke is strong. Offers virtual rewards for staying smokefree (from one day to one year). Created by the USA-based National Cancer Institute (NCI).
Pedometer| Pedometer Pedometer tracks steps taken, speed achieved, laps covered, distance traveled, and calories burned. Pedometer tracks steps taken, speed achieved, laps covered, distance traveled, and calories burned. Steps are counted irrespective of whether the phone is carried in the hand, on an arm, in a bag, on a belt, or in a pocket. Adjustable sensitivity and automatic calibration allows for switching between walking and jogging/running. Automatic screen dimming saves battery life while the app continues to count steps. A locking mechanism prevents accidental pressing of buttons while the device is in a pocket or bag. A history of daily totals and timed runs is kept. Imperial or metric measurement units can be selected. GPS support.
Anti-stress Chromotherapy| Anti-stress Chromotherapy Chromotherapy app intended to reduce mental stress by demonstrating the therapeutic value of 256 shades of colour. Chromotherapy app intended to reduce mental stress by demonstrating the therapeutic value of 256 shades of colour.
My Pain Diary: Chronic Pain Management| My Pain Diary: Chronic Pain Management Pain diaryfor people with allergies, back pain, chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), depression, fibromyalgia, headaches, or migraine. Pain diary for people with allergies, back pain, chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), depression, fibromyalgia, headaches, or migraine. Allows multiple chronic conditions to be tracked. Intensity of pain, its locations, the types, the triggers, and treatments can be documented. A text note, and up to three photos, can be added to each entry (perhaps showing discoloration, swelling, rashes, etc). Interactive graphs help in finding correlations between factors and the weather. Reminders to keep entries consistent can be issued. Password protected. Data can be backed up via Dropbox.
Carbohydrate Units Calculator / Carb Counter & Food Exchange List for Diabetics| Carbohydrate Units Calculator / Carb Counter & Food Exchange List for Diabetics Carbohydrate counter to support self-management of diabetes. This app helps with carb counting. Carb counting is seen by diabetes professionals around the world as an effective meal planning technique to better manage blood glucose levels. Done right, it can lead to better blood glucose control and greater flexibility in the times and amount of foods we eat. It improves the physical and psychological well-being of diabetics by offering greater freedom of (food) choice and a more relaxed lifestyle.
iPrompts| iPrompts Utilises illustrations to give instructions or to ask questions, allowing a carer to converse more easily with people who have communicational difficulties. Utilises illustrations to give instructions or to ask questions, allowing a carer to converse more easily with people who have communicational difficulties. Particularly aimed at children, including those with autism, or attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Living Safely| Living Safely Utilises illustrations to teach lessons about personal safety and home safety (such cold weather safety, sport safety, electrical safety, and medicine cabinet safety). Good for people with autism. Utilises illustrations to teach lessons about personal safety and home safety (such cold weather safety, sport safety, electrical safety, and medicine cabinet safety).
MyFitnessPal| MyFitnessPal Weight-loss and exercise tracker. Weight-loss and exercise tracker. Accesses an online database of 1.5 million foods (a shortened database is available offline). Allows calories, carbohydrates, cholesterol, fat, fibre, protein, and sugar to be tracked. The recipe calculator accepts custom recipes, and calculates their nutritional contents. Frequently-used foods are automatically remembered. Details about entire meals can be saved and reused. Has a barcode scanner. Also lists over 350 exercises. Tracks cardiological and strength training (including repetitions, sets, and weight/rep). Allows an unlimited number of custom exercises to be entered. A free MyFitnessPal.com account is needed to synchronise, and to back up data.
Crisis Card| Crisis Card In the event of a mental health crisis the Crisis Card app provides a one-button-press call for help, to reach out to the user's support network without having to face a phone call. The mental health charity MIND, working in conjunction with the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough Clinical Commissioning Group and the SUN Network, wanted to increase the reach and user experience of their paper-based Crisis Card tool. The Crisis Card helps people living with mental health issues manage and get help during times of crisis. the Crisis Card app is the result. Users can communicate your needs without having to talk, and share your location without knowing where they are.
Ecco CanCer| Ecco CanCer Features the activities ofBelgium-based multi-stakeholder organisation specialising in cancer, the European CanCer Organisation (ECCO). Features the activities of Belgium-based multi-stakeholder organisation specialising in cancer, the European CanCer Organisation (ECCO). Allows the user to search and browse the programmes of two ECCO-related conferences (checking, for example, exhibitions, interactive exhibitor lists, posters, satellite symposia, sessions, etc). A customised conference itinerary can be created, with session slots inserted. Comments can be noted on the app, Tweeted or emailed. The app also supplies cancer-oriented news. Mainly an app aimed at medical professionals, but also of some value to the interested patient.
Buddy| Buddy An app for medical professionals to purchase, and then to pass on topatients who are living with a mental health problem. An app for medical professionals to purchase, and then to pass on to patients who are living with a mental health problem. Enables people with a mental health problem to overcome shortcomings with memory by digitally recordingmoods and activities for their doctor. A user can keep a daily diary, access web tools to helpunderstand the condition, set personal goals, and receive prompts to achieve those targets. Appointment reminders inform about dates with healthcare professionals. The app aims to improve outcomes for people with a long-term mental-health condition, and to enable medical practitioners to support their patients more effectively.
Numera Social| Numera Social Lifestyle planner for managing changes in nutrition and exercise regimesone potential aim of which might be slowing the progression of diabetes, for instance. Lifestyle planner for managing changes in nutrition and exercise regimesone potential aim of which might be slowing the progression of diabetes, for instance. Allows the user to set personal health goals (such as manage blood pressure and blood sugar, manage cholesterol, reduce weight, reduce waist size, and take walks). Charts record and track progress. The app generates action plans and provides guidance in achieving the goals. The affiliate Facebook group allows the user to team up with friends and family, or with other users of the app. Co-developed byUS-based patient group, American Diabetes Association (ADA) of Washington State. A Facebook and smartphone app. Requires Facebook registration.
World Child Cancer| World Child Cancer Allows the user to follow the progress of World Child Cancer projects around the world, and to find out more about how cancer is faced by children in the developing world. Allows the user to follow the progress of World Child Cancer projects around the world, and to find out more about how cancer is faced by children in the developing world.
iBGStar mmol/L Diabetes Manager App| iBGStar mmol/L Diabetes Manager App Helps people with diabetes to track and manage blood-sugar levels. Helps people with diabetes to track and manage blood-sugar levels. A home screen Scorecard shows blood-glucose readings, carbohydrate intake, and insulin doses. Blood-sugar readings can be tagged relative to meals, with the tag label customised as pre- or post-breakfast, lunch, dinner, or night. Data can be analysed in three ways: a Logbook records readings organised by meal-relationship tags for each reading; Statistics offers average results across seven, 14, 30, or 90 days; and a Trend chart plots readings, giving a visual representation of blood-sugar levels over time. Results can be shared by email with a doctor. The app can partner with a purchasable, portable glucose meter that plugs in to the phone.
Pact| Pact Encourages healthy eating and exercise. Encourages healthy eating and exercise, and monitors whether pre-arranged targets for both are being met. Targets that are met are rewarded by weekly payments of upwards of a few US cents, while failure to meet goals is penalised by sums of several dollars per missed target being withdrawn from the user's bank account (users who miss targets effectively funding those who reach them). Exercise can be monitored by the user informing the app about entering a gym. Workouts can be verified and logged courtesy of the phone's GPS and accelerometer. The app integrates with partner apps FitBit, Jawbone UP, MapMyRun, MyFitnessPal, and RunKeeper to help in fitness activities. Healthy eating is verified by the user taking photograhs of meals, which are then verified as suitable by other users of the app. The developercurrently earns money by taking a 50-cent fee on each cash transaction (payment or 'fine').
MyPlate Calorie Tracker| MyPlate Calorie Tracker Help the user to reach diet, weight-loss and fitness goals (whether losing, maintaining or gaining weight) by tracking daily exercise and daily calorific, fat, carbohydrate, and protein intake. Help the user to reach diet, weight-loss and fitness goals (whether losing, maintaining or gaining weight) by tracking daily exercise and daily calorific, fat, carbohydrate, and protein intake. Allows access to Livestrongs online database, MyPlate, containing over 1.3 million food and restaurant items. Sets personalised daily calorie intake based on goals. Tracking of water consumption helps the user stay hydrated. Daily weight-goal reminders can be sent. The payable version of the app allows synchronisation with the Livestrong.com website.
Visual Anatomy Lite/Free| Visual Anatomy Lite/Free Anatomical learning and reference tool. Tool for learning anatomy and physiology. Contains 120 high-resolution images of parts of the body, each with labels and descriptive text. The images can be interactively examined with the inbuilt tap-and-pinch zoom. 3-D models of body sections can be rotated on screen. The user can test their own knowledge with a quiz function. The paid version of the app contains images from Grays Anatomy.
iBreastCheck| iBreastCheck Contains a video on how women should properly check their breasts for cancer. Is approved by NHS Choices as being safe. Contains a video on how women should properly check their breasts for cancer. Allows reminders to be set on when to check. Also carries information on the UK-based patient group, Breakthrough Breast Cancer (BBC), in case users in that country wish to become involved.
Liv med Krft [Life with Cancer]| Liv med Krft [Life with Cancer] Allows audio, images,and video relevant to cancer symptoms, and to life with cancer, to be stored in a logbook, and shared with carers, doctors, family, etc. Allows audio, images, and video relevant to cancer symptoms, and to life with cancer, to be stored in a logbook, and shared with carers, doctors, family, etc.To-do listscan be built, and questions to ask a doctor, employer, family members, etc, can be stored. Also contains updated details on cancer counselling events (relevant in Denmark only). Winner of Category 25, 'Mobile and Apps', at the Digital Communication Awards 2013, Berlin.
Body Language - Expressions| Body Language - Expressions Allows recognition training of fleeting facial expressions known as micro-expressions. Allows recognition training of fleeting facial expressions known as micro-expressions. Aims to improve skills in recognising fleeting expressions, and in deciphering concealed emotions (useful in the personal relationships of people with a learning disability, or people with a hearing impairment).
Your Medicine 1-2-3 pro| Your Medicine 1-2-3 pro Pill reminderwithcustomisable features Pill-reminder app. Distinguishes between PRNs (take-as-needed medication), contraceptives, non-continuous treatments, and interval-based treatments. Compensates for new time zones, so that travellers are still reminded of the correct time to take medication. The app is particularly suitable for the medication of people with ADHD. Inventory levels of medicines can be checked. The app can cope with up to 50 prescriptions. The app canpage an emergency contact if an untaken or uncollected prescription getslate. Personal details can be input and stored in eight categories of information: about me; doctors; emergencies; health plans; hospitals; medicines; pharmacies; extra information. The app's alarms can be silenced simply by shaking the device. Stored personal data is encrypted and password protected. The free version of the app contains all the functions of the pro version, but only operates for 60 days.
Sign 4 Me| Sign 4 Me A tool for learning a basic sign language called Signed English, or manually-coded English (MCE). A tool for learning a basic sign language called Signed English, or manually-coded English (MCE). The app is intended for the beginning learner, or anyone with an interest in learning sign language. Signs are demonstrated on screen by images. 11,500 words are stored. An online demonstration is available at http://signingapp.com.
iAnkylosing Spondylitis| iAnkylosing Spondylitis Educational app about ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Educational app about ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Contains voice and text videos that introduce the conditions symptoms, and refer to associated diseases, diagnostic criteria, genetics, incidence, morbidity/mortality, pharmacological management, and physical therapy. Includes medical imaging, showing sacro-iliitis and syndesmophytes, treatment suggestions and exercise animations. The partner app, iAnkylosingSpondylitis Pro [13.99; approximately19.2/$21.81], was developed for clinicians, but can also be useful to interested patients.
Dosecast| Dosecast Reminder to take medications on time. Reminder to take medications on time. Sends dose reminders with, or without, an Internet connection. Tracks the time zone for travellers, and adjusts reminders accordingly. Issues reminders on a daily/weekly/monthly schedule, every certain number of days/weeks, or a pre-set number of hours or days since the last dose. Overdoses can be avoided by setting a maximum number of doses allowed per day or per 24 hours. Drug name, dosage information, directions, and notes can appear in the reminders for each dose. Reminders can be postponed. Allows the tracking of drugs taken via drops, inhalers, injections, liquid form, ointments, patches, or sprays.
MedSimple| MedSimple Helps to manage medications by storing a list of the user's medicines, doctors and pharmacists. Helps to manage medications by storing a list of the user's doctors, medicines, and pharmacists. Produces reminders at the due time to take medication. Alsooffers some information on drugs, including side effects. Designed for people who need to take two or more medicines a day.
Moje Leczenie [My Treatment]| Moje Leczenie [My Treatment] Medication reminder and medical appointments diary. Medication reminder and medical appointments diary that allows the user to plan a schedule of times for taking medicines. The app issues reminders at the appropriate times. A statistics function provides graphs that record the users record of taking medication on time (or missing medication times). The diary function allows the user to record the details of forthcoming visits to the doctor. Also allows the user to monitor the medication compliance of a family member. The app has an emphasis on simplicity and ease of operation, contains no adverts, and does not collect the personal information of the user.
Everyday BSL Dictionary| Everyday BSL Dictionary Dictionary of British Sign Language (BSL). Dictionary of British Sign Language (BSL). Contains over 4,000 sign illustrations. Searchable. Alternative signs are grouped as single entries. No Internet connection is required for use. The app is periodically updated as new signs emerge.
Musicians First Aid| Musicians First Aid Application to improve the health of musicians. Provides information about early stage symptoms seen is musicians that might require medical intervention of physiotherapy. The intention is to encourage musicians to come forward as early as possible for treatment and care, before their condition worsens. The app also provides strategies and tips to alleviate the underlying medical problems. The app works as follows: First the musicians must select the area of the body in which may be exhibiting symptoms. The app asks questions to find out what may have been the main cause of the disorder. With this information, the application displays the most common medical causes for the musician to choose the most appropriate match. Often, if the information obtained is not sufficiently conclusive, the application makes some additional questions about symptoms. When the system believes it has sufficient information to the musician, the app proposes a list of possible corrective measures, strategies and tips, such as numerous images about to undertake useful exercises, and enable the musician to optimize performance without the risk of injury.
European Health Insurance Card (EHIC)| European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) Shows citizens of EU Member States how to apply for a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC). Produced by the European Commission to show citizens of EU Member States (and four other European countries) how to apply for a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC). The app also contains general information about the card, emergency phone numbers, covered treatments and costs, how to claim reimbursement, and who to contact in case of a lost card.
Bant - A diabetes app for the ePatient| Bant - A diabetes app for the ePatient Diabetes management app intended to simplify diabetes management, and to be used by adolescents and younger people with diabetes. Diabetes management app intended to simplify diabetes management, and to be used by adolescents and younger people with diabetes. Compatible with glucose meters (via Bluetooth). The user can enter data readings such as glucose values with a single swipe. Readings are stored on a secure Microsoft HealthVault account. Trend graphs can be customised with a variety of colours, time periods and labels. Data can be shared with healthcare professionals and others via email, Twitter and Microsoft HealthVault.
airTEXT| airTEXT Information about current and forthcoming air pollution, pollen, ultraviolet levels, plus temperature, for Greater London, England. Details about current and forthcoming air pollution, pollen, ultraviolet levels, plus temperature, for Greater London, England. Each of these categories is rated from 1 (low) to 10 (high). The pollutants included in the daily assessment are nitrogen dioxide, ozone, and particulates. Temperatures given are maximum and minimum. The information refers to the current conditions on the day, and the conditions for the next two days. Users can specify which London borough they wish the information to refer to. The airTEXT service draws on regional air-quality forecasts derived from the activities of a European Space Agency (ESA) satellite, and localises the information by accessing data on London road-traffic levels, plus the conditions reported by local weather-monitoring stations from around the capital. Does not contain adverts.
MyDystonia| MyDystonia A disease diary for dystonia patients to track and record symptoms and treatment. People with dystonia can use the app to help them to:
Stay Alive| Stay Alive Suicide prevention toolkit. This app is a pocket suicide prevention resource, packed full of useful information to help you stay safe. You can use it if you are having thoughts of suicide or if you are concerned about someone else who may be considering suicide.
MappyHealth| MappyHealth Web-based app for detecting disease outbreaks earlier than conventional surveillance methods. Web-based app for detecting disease outbreaks earlier than conventional surveillance methods, by analysing trends in social media. A banner across the top of the website gives details about whichever disease is trending in real time.
Predictable| Predictable Alternative communication solution for people who have difficulty speaking. Alternative communication solution for people who have difficulty speaking.A text-to-speech app with a choice of 26 voices. ModelTalker voice banking integration. Emoticons add laughter, crying, or whistling to messages. A word-prediction engine helps users input text faster. A Note pad option permits hand writing on the screen. Category folders allows you to store phrases or prepared messages. A History view gives access to last-used phrases.Touch anywhere & Switch access is present to help those with limited motor ability.Emails can be composed and sent. Phrases can be backed up on a computer. Facebook and Twitter can be updated directly from the app. Predictable has beenCE certified, indicating the products compliance with EU legislation.
Toilet Finder| Toilet Finder Is meant to be one of worlds largest directory of public lavatories/restrooms, with over 60,000 listed and mapped by users through crowd-sourcing. Said to be the worlds largest database of public lavatories/restrooms, with over 60,000 listed and mapped. Based on user contribution; users can report new or closed lavatorial facilities.
CF MedCare| CF MedCare Treatment reminderto help people who have cystic fibrosis (CF) manage their medication regime. Allows a user to create a personal treatment profile (or multiple profiles, for family members and carers), taking into account medicines, schedules and other types of relevant instructions. Alerts appear on screen whena medicine is due to be taken. The user inputs one ofa set of standard responses(such as "I Already Took"; "Take Now", "Skip", "Postpone", etc). The user can also add images (for instance, of a prescription), and type in text. The appacts as atracker, recording the user'scompliance record over time. Records can be sorted alphabetically or chronologically.The app builds medicine information into tables, noting medicine name,type, strength, dosage, start and end dates, and instructions.The app allows these records to be emailed to ahealthcare professional or any other person.
ReSound Smart| ReSound Smart App that creates a direct connection between hearing aids and content from some android devices, iphones, ipads, ipod touch, and Apple Watch This means that without an additional Bluetooth connection, people can link to their devices to hear content, listen to music or take calls.
HIV Test Finder| HIV Test Finder Allows the user to find HIV testing services in the UK. Lists 700-plus clinics, charities, community organisations, pharmacies and sexual-health services that provide HIV testing for members of the public. Specifies whether the testing is free or involves a cost. Search options help a user find the most suitable testing service. Saves details for later.
CaringBridge| CaringBridge Allows the user to find HIV testing services in the UK. A social network aimed particularly at people with an illness. Allows the user to connect with family, friends, carers. A personal website can be created, then updated whenever the user chooses. A Journal can be added (with photographs included), to keep visitors to the site informed. Visitors can leave messages on a Guestbook. The sites of family and friends can be similarly accessed. An Activity Planner allows the days events to be planned, or care to be coordinated.
Headache Diary (ecoHeadache)| Headache Diary (ecoHeadache) Diary for people who have headaches, migraine, or ENT (ear, nose or throat) pain. Diary for people who have headaches, migraine, or ENT (ear, nose or throat) pain. Tracks pain levels, symptoms, potential triggers, level of disability, and medication taken. Allows start time, end time, and duration of pain to be recorded. Pain can be documented according to location, type, and on a scale of intensity. Varying severity of pain during the course of a headache can also be noted. Duplicate headachessimilar to those occurring beforecan have their details recorded by pressing a single button. Information about medication and other forms of therapy (time, dose, and effect) can be included. Statistics can show the user's recorded information according to the last day, week, fortnight, month, multiples of months, and annually. Medication reminders can be set. The database can be backed up and restored. Results can be exported to Excel, and emailed to a doctor. (ecoHeadache is one of the three highest-scoring headache apps assessed in Huguet; Hundert; McGrath; Stinson; and Wheaton, Commercially-available mobile-phone headache diary apps: a systematic review,
Live OCD Free| Live OCD Free Interactive app designed to guide adult and child users through evidence-based treatment, called exposure and response prevention (ERP), for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Interactive app designed to guide adult and child users through evidence-based treatment, called exposure and response prevention (ERP), for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Aims to help the adult user establish an exposure hierarchy, and set goals and rewards. Symptom-specific tools help fight OCD by allowing compulsions and fears to be checked, and progress tracked. The childrens version is more game-like. Includes adult and child video tutorials.
Blood Pressure Log| Blood Pressure Log Allows blood pressure, pulse, and weight readings to be tracked. Allows blood pressure, pulse, and weight readings to be tracked. Information that can be logged includes date and time of reading; heart rate (pulse); site and position; systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP); weight (in kilograms or pounds); and comments. Data for an unlimited number of other users (such as family members) can be entered. Some data analysis based on recommendations by international medical professional bodies is also available. A full version of the app is identical, but without advertisements. The app loses its English title in languages other than English. For instance: Blutdruck Logbuch (DE), and Registro de presin arterial (ES).
HabitRPG| HabitRPG Role-playing game (RPG) that offers the user virtual rewards for having good personal habits. Role-playing game (RPG) that motivates the user into having good personal habits by offering virtual rewards. Habits and tasks that need to be encouraged and carried out can be specified, as can be the bad habits that should be avoided (such as eating junk food, or smoking). Points are gained in the game by completing good tasks/habits, and health points lost if these tasks are not carried out properly, or if the user lapses into the bad habits. The game is played on successive levels, according to the success at completing the good personal habits.
Track3| Track3 Diabetes logbook for the recording and tracking of factors affecting blood-sugar levels. Nutritional information is also provided. Diabetes logbook for the recording and tracking of factors affecting blood-sugar levels. The user can log information on blood glucose, exercise, insulin (including different insulin types), nutrition, and oral medications. The integrated database can be searched for the carbohydrate, calorie and other nutritional contents of over 100,000 foods, 500 specific branded foods, and 300 popular restaurants. Serving sizes can be adjusted to see detailed carbohydrate content, providing an accurate indication of likely blood-glucose level (glucose units are in mg/dl in the US version of the app, and in mmol/L in non-US versions of the app). Custom recipes and lists of favourites can be added to the database. The apps database of exercises displays calories burned per minute, specific to time spent, type of exercise, and weight. Offline mode also allows the user to access the app anytime; meanwhile, the databases are synced with new content whenever the app is updated. Data can be emailed in spreadsheet format to carers and healthcare professionals, as well as shared among multiple devices using the multi-device sync add-on.
Toahjlpen| Toahjlpen Showsthe location of the nearest publiclavatories (including disabled toilets) in Stockholm, Visby, and Gothenburg in Sweden. Showsthe location of the nearest publiclavatories (including disabled toilets) in Stockholm, Visby, and Gothenburg in Sweden
mySugr Diabetes Logbook| mySugr Diabetes Logbook Diabetes logbook that awards points for meaningful entries with the aim of 'taming the diabetes monster' by overcoming challenges. For quick access for your mobile see Qcard in screenshots. Diabetes logbook that awards points for meaningful entries, with the aim of 'taming the diabetes monster' by overcoming challenges. Easy logging with tags and notes. Multiple photographs (for instance, of food) can be added to each entry, and made more relevant by linking to a location (for instance, a restaurant). Data analysis includes graphs. Received FDA approval as a medical device in January 2013, and the developer has declared the app CE certified, indicating the app's compliance with EU legislation. 'mySugr Junior' is a free companion logbook app by the same developer, intended for children with diabetes.
U-Turn (Opiate Overdose Response)| U-Turn (Opiate Overdose Response) App for anyone who wishes to help consumers of opiate drugs (such as codeine, fentanyl, heroin, methadone, or morphine), including their family, friends, social welfare workers, and the drug consumers themselves. App for anyone who wishes to help consumers of opiate drugs (such as codeine, fentanyl, heroin, methadone, or morphine), includingfamily, friends, social welfare workers, and the drug consumers themselves. The app is a learning resource and training manual, preparing a user to act in the event of an overdose. Interactive audio and visual advice (assisted by large press-button options) aims to help the user manage the overdose, prior to the arrival of emergency services. The app guides the user in recognising opiate overdose, in assessing risks, in checking airway and breathing, on the recovery position, and in administering cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Also entitled Opiate Overdose Response on Android.
Skin S3D HD| Skin S3D HD Tool for viewing the skin in 3D. Tool for viewing the skin in 3D.Displays the layersforming the dermis and epidermis, based on histological sections of healthy skin. The user can study the components of the skin and attached structures from any viewpoint. The app complements the conventional approach to the study of dermatology.
Sorenson BuzzCards| Sorenson BuzzCards Designed to help people who are deaf to communicate more easily with people who do not know any sign language. Designed to help people who are deaf to communicate more easily with people who do not know any sign language. The app generates a series of flash cards, on which the user can place messages. Any number of cards can be created and edited. Frequently-needed cards (such as, "Where is the lavatory?", or "Where is the nearest bus stop?") can be kept organised by category (for example, by Eating, or Travel). The user communicates by picking a card, and holding the phones screen where it can be seen.
Healthsome G for Glucose| Healthsome G for Glucose Tracks glucose, meal types, medication, and weight. Tracks glucose levels, meal types, medication (oral and injected), and weight. Offers a choice of Imperial and metric measurements. Personal information is displayed in a variety of charts, which can be emailed to a health professional. The input data form is customisable. Offers reminders of appointment and check-up dates. In-app purchases (called upgrade) are required to give access to other features of the app, including the tracking of blood pressure, BMI, cholesterol, and pulse, and to the tracking of the users family.
National Public Toilet Map| National Public Toilet Map Shows the location of 14,000-plus toilets in Australia. Shows the location of 14,000-plus toilets. Contains details of details of accessibility, opening hours, and parking. Functional in Australia only.
mobiCeliac [XL]| mobiCeliac [XL] List of 12,500 food-and-beverage products sold in Spain. For people with gluten intolerance. List of 12,500 food-and-beverage products sold in Spain. For people with gluten intolerance. The food guide is searchable by brand, by food categories, and by products. 14,000 barcode references are listed. A barcode-scanning facility allows the user to scan barcodes, to detect whether a product is gluten free. Also holds a guide to 2,000 coeliac-friendly hotels and restaurants, with location maps. Updated weekly. Registration required with the Spain-based patient group, Asociacin de Celiacos de Madrid (ACM) [Association of Coeliacs of Madrid], which provides the apps information.
My Lupus Log| My Lupus Log Allows symptoms of lupus to be recorded, to help better manage the condition. Allows the user to record how symptoms of lupus are affecting daily life, with the aim of tracking the progression of the condition, and being able to report detailed information on symptoms to the doctor at the next visit. Represents the severity and frequency of symptoms in chart form. Organises information on living with the symptoms of lupus. Offers alerts and reminders. Contains a dictionary of terms relevant to lupus.
SmallTalk Intensive Care| SmallTalk Intensive Care Provides a list of phrases and images with which patients can communicate to medical professionals some of their needs and feelings (such as "I have chest pain", or "I want a doctor"). Provides a list of phrases and images with which patients can communicate to medical professionals some of their needs and feelings (such as "I have chest pain", or "I want a doctor"). Intended for patients and people who have difficulty speaking (perhaps due, for instance, to a language impairment, or not knowing enough English), and for people who cannot speak at all (perhaps due, for instance, to being intubated, or on a tracheotomy tube). Phrases chosen are spoken in a natural human voice, and accompanying pictures emphasise meaning.
Carrot Rewards| Carrot Rewards App rewarding Canadians through loyalty points for learning how to live more healthily Following pilots and evaluation, the intention is to roll the app out across Canada, and expand its functionality.
My Inhealthcare| My Inhealthcare App used within parts of the UK National Health Service, enabling patients to track, monitor and manage their health, and choose to share data to share with healthcare professionals. The My Inhealthcare app was designed in collaboration with UK NHS clinicians and patients.
Brush DJ| Brush DJ App intended to show the correct length of time when brushing teeth. App intended to show the correct length of time when brushing teeth. Plays music as an accompaniment, to make the task of toothbrushing more interesting.
LogFrog DB Lite| LogFrog DB Lite Diabetes management app for recording and tracking A1c levels, blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, doctor visits, exercise activities, insulin or oral medication, weight, and other medical records. Diabetes management app for recording and tracking A1c levels, blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, doctor visits, exercise activities, insulin or oral medication, weight, and other medical records. Entries can be edited, deleted, and tagged with notes. Reminders can also be set to alert a user when to take medication, and when to check blood-sugar levels. Auto-grouping of entries, and time and contextual tags, allow the user to better understand data. Goals can be monitored in comparison to readings ingraph format with an array of filter features (including byexercise,by medication, by nearby meal, or by time of day). Data can be exported as a CSV table, to allow the user to perform further edits or in-depth analysis. Voice-over and shake for help support is built in.
BabyWatch Tracking (formerly BellaBEAT)| BabyWatch Tracking (formerly BellaBEAT) Records the heartbeart of an unborn baby, and allows the sound file to be shared online. Allows parent-to-be to listen to their unborn child's heartbeart, and to see the heartbeat as a moving visual image. The sound file can be shared with family and friends via the developer's 'GlobalBeat' social platform [http://babywatch.co/BabyWatchbeat.html]. Acts as a calendar, tracking relevant dates during pregnancy. Also contains medical illustrations about the various stages of foetal development, and tips and hints about prenatal matters. Has received FDA approval as a medical device, and the developer has declared the app CE certified, indicating the app's compliance with EU legislation. Does not contain adverts. Note: the app requires the purchase of a hardware item,a pocket-sized ultrasound Doppler.
Big White Wall| Big White Wall Provides advice helpful to peoplewith anxiety, debt, stress, or work problems. Big White Wall provides safe, anonymous support 24/7 to anyone struggling with a range of common mental health issues, or who feels burdened by everyday worries and concerns.Members can share experiences, express themselves in images by making a brick in the wall, and access a range of guided group support courses on topics including managing anxiety and depression, positive thinking and problem solving. There is also a range of self-administered clinical tests, guides and tips to improve wellbeing, including articles on self-esteem, sleep, relationships and many more. Trained counsellors (called Wall Guides) are online at all times to moderate the service and provide additional support. According to BWW95% of members feel better after using Big White Wall, and 73% share an issue for the first time. Big White Wall is available 24/7 on the website, and via tablet and smartphone app. After creating an account at
Pictello| Pictello Simple method for non-speaking people of all ages to create visual, talking stories. Simple way for people of all ages who cannot speak to create stories based on images and talking text. Each page in a story can hold apicture, or a short video, text, and a recorded sound. Text can be read aloud using natural-sounding text-to-speech. No reading skills are needed to find and read the app's stored stories. Although the app is available in six languages, the text-to-speech facility is available in 22 more languages (94 different voices), which can be downloaded from the developer for free. A 'Wizard' guides the user in a simple way through the story-creation process; an 'Expert' mode shows the user how to exploit the app's full editing capacity. Stories can be shared as PDFs through email, or on various social media outlets.
Diabetes Log| Diabetes Log Diabetes management tracker for recording food intake, glucose readings, and medicine records. Diabetes management tracker for recording food intake, glucose readings, and medicine records. The user inputs data and contextual notes. Custom spans can be set to track and view. Data can be exported via common-space value (CSV) over email.
Talkforme| Talkforme Communication tool that allows a user to convey needs through photographstaken with the phone, and sentencestyped in. Communication tool that allows a user to convey needs through photographs taken with the phone, and sentences typed in. A user clicks on an itemsaved (consisting of a picture and a sentence), and presses the Talk button. The app speaks the sentence (and can translate it into over 30 languages). Input may be customised into user-defined batches of pictures and sentences, making them relevant to the user. An almost-unlimited number of pictures and sentences can be added and organised. For people with a speech/learning difficulty, and forpeople visiting other countries.
ItsaMANTHING - Prostate Cancer| ItsaMANTHING - Prostate Cancer Provides information about prostate cancer. Provides information about prostate cancer in non-technical terminology, all written by patients. The information supplied includes facts about symptoms, diagnosis, and treatments. The app also holds videos of patients talking about their experiences of prostate cancer.
iDoc24 - Ask the dermatologist today| iDoc24 - Ask the dermatologist today Allows a user to send anonymous photos of any skin conditionto a dermatologist. Allows a user to send anonymous photos of any skin condition to a dermatologist. The dermatologist should reply within 24 hours, seven days a week, with advice on potential diagnoses, treatments, and whether a physical visit to a doctor is necessary.
Glooko| Glooko Complementary logbook app that, when combined with the developers proprietary Sync cable, and various manufacturers compatible blood-glucose meters, saves a user with diabetes from having to manually enter blood-glucose readings. Complementary logbook app that, when combined with the developers proprietary Sync cable, and various manufacturers compatible blood-glucose meters, saves the user with diabetes from having to manually enter blood-glucose readings. After a user has connected their glucose meter via the Sync cable, the app will automatically sync data to its logbook. The logbook can accept readings from multiple meters, and combine data into one tracking format. Contextual tags can be assigned to readings, and the user can draw on the apps integrated food database to add nutritional information (including carbohydrate values) about consumed foods directly to readings. Multiple-view options allow trends to be tracked over timeframes. Data can be exported in CSV file for in-depth analysis, and a two-week or one-month PDF summary of the logbook can be emailed to healthcare professionals.
Big Picture Debates the Brain| Big Picture Debates the Brain Interactive quiz/debate about social and ethical issues relating to the brain. Interactive quiz/debate about social and ethical issues relating to the brain. The user picks topics of debate, reads the information about those debates presented by the app in an interactive fashion, and makes a judgement as to which side of the debate to support. The app adds the user's 'vote' to a crowd-sourced tally of the votes of previous users, and the app then allows the user to view the 'majority' opinion on the debate.
JOHNSON'S BEDTIME Baby Sleep| JOHNSON'S BEDTIME Baby Sleep An app to help parents to track their babys sleep patterns and habits, and includes access to sleep professional experts. An app to help parents to track their babys sleep patterns and habits, and includes access to sleep professional experts. Includes: tracker, information, lullabies, analyses of baby sleep patterns, professional advice. According to Johnson & Johnson, Dr. Jodi Mindell is nationally recognized in her field for her expertise on paediatric sleep problems. In collaboration with Johnson & Johnson, Dr. Mindell oversaw the development of the parenting brochure Sleep, Your Baby and You, and helped create the Johnson's Bedtime smartphone app.
Special Stories| Special Stories Supports early learning for children with Downs syndrome. Supports early learning for children with Downs syndrome. Allows children to create their own stories with words, images, and sound. Children and their parents, carers, and teachers can read and listen to the childrens own stories, print them off, and share them with family, friends and others. Part of UK charity Down Syndrome Educational (DSE) Internationals See and Learn programme of educational material for children with Downs syndrome, and partner to the Special Words app.
e-symptoms| e-symptoms Diary that allows people with asthma or allergies to document their symptoms and potential environmental triggers. Diary that allows people with asthma or allergies to document their symptoms and potential environmental triggers. Symptoms can be noted on a daily basis, along with medication taken, and relevant lifestyle habits that might have a bearing on the allergy. Photographs of the user's skin can be taken to document dermatitis. Data is recorded in the form of charts and graphs, with the intention of passing this information to the user's doctor (can be sent at the touch of a button). The accumulated information on symptoms, medication, peak-flow readings, etc, is added by the app to data on current pollen count, air pollution levels, rainfall and temperature (available in Switzerland only), to give the user's doctor more relevant information. The app records the doctor's contact details, and each transmission to the doctor. Also offers tips on coping with allergy. Personal data is protected by PIN access. This app isan extension of a three-year allergy study of the EU research project HIALINE (Health Impacts of Airborne Allergen Information Network), led by the Institut fr Allergieforschung [Institute for Allergy Research], Helmholtz Zentrum Mnchen, Deutsches Forschungszentrum fr Gesundheit und Umwelt [German Research Centre for Environmental Health], Germany. Anonymised user data sent by the app to the project will help researchers learn more about allergies and forecasting symptoms.
Langerhans HbA1c Calculator| Langerhans HbA1c Calculator Bi-directional conversion calculator for people with diabetes. Bi-directional conversion calculator for people with diabetes. A user can input HbA1c values into the app, and it will convert from the old, percentage-based Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) units to the new, mmol/L-based classification of the International Federation of Clinical Chemistry (IFCC), and vice-versa.
Smoke Free - Quit smoking now and stop for good| Smoke Free - Quit smoking now and stop for good Encourages the user to give up smoking through reminders -such as how much money they have saved through not smoking. If they wish users can also participate in research on how to help people quit smoking. Smoking-cessation app. Offers advice on quitting smoking. Records and displays the amount of money (in Pounds sterling or US dollars) that the user has saved by not smoking, the number of days the user has remained smoke free, and the number of cigarettes that would otherwise have been smoked.Provides information on the user's energy levels, information on the condition of the user's circulatory system, and on the user's potential respiratory problems. A 'diary' function encourages the user to record simple smoke-related personal facts (for instance, about cravings to smoke). The anonymised diary details are intended to be transmitted to the developer, as part of his Ph.D studies at the University of London (users can opt out of participation).
Companion| Companion App designed for teens and adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder, to help with daily tasks and activities when parents or teachers are not around for support. Companion uses a human avatar called Abby to help people with autism to organise and carry out day to day tasks and activities.
Health Appointments| Health Appointments Helps a user prepare for medical consultations and appointments by planning whatshould be said and asked, and by advising what sort of information should be brought to the consultation. Helps a user prepare for medical consultations and appointments by planning what should be said and asked, and by advising what sort of information should be brought to the consultation. Also acts as a reminder of scheduled appointments.
Personality Profile Quizzes| Personality Profile Quizzes Personal development tool. A personal development tool. Over 600 tests and quizzes encourage the user to explore their own personality, with the aim of individual improvement. Although initially free, the app requires in-app purchases of bundles of themed tests. One such theme is 'health, diet, fitness and beauty', which contains quizzes on health-oriented subjects such as 'body image', 'food and diet',
Carbs & Cals - Diabetes & Diet| Carbs & Cals - Diabetes & Diet Allows the user to count the amount of calories and carbohydrates contained in food and drink by consulting the app's 1,400-plus photographs of food and drink items. Allows the user to count the amount of calories and carbohydrates contained in food and drink by consulting the app's 1,400-plus photographs of food and drink items. The payable, full version of the app lists over 500 food and drink items, while the Lite version lists only 34 such items (both versions identical otherwise). Calculations to figure out carbohydrate and calorie content are unnecessary; the user matches the food on their plate with photographs in the app, chooses the correct portion size (up to 6 portion photos for each food item), and adds the result to the built-in meal calculator. Details of each meal can be saved into the integrated calendar, so that the daily consumption of carbs and cals can be tracked.
Diabetes UK Tracker| Diabetes UK Tracker Logs blood glucose, blood-fat and blood-pressure levels, calories, carbohydrates, HbA1c, insulin, ketones, and weight. Logs blood glucose, blood-fat and blood-pressure levels, calories, carbohydrates, HbA1c, insulin, ketones, and weight. Graphs visualise results across days and weeks. Photos of meals, or other reminders of the day, can be added. Specific records can be saved as talking points, to help in the recognition of patterns. Allows graphs and notes to be emailed to healthcare professionals and others, or shared on Facebook or Twitter.
Ulster County SPEAK| Ulster County SPEAK Suicide awareness and prevention app. Suicide awareness and prevention app. Provides information that is intended to help a user recognise (and then assess) any signs of suicide in family or friends. Offers advice on how to get professional help.
First aid by British Red Cross| First aid by British Red Cross Provides simple advice on how to perform first aid. Provides simple advice on how to perform first aid in 18 everyday, commonplace circumstances in which first aid is required (such as road-traffic accidents, and severe winter weather). Facilities offered include animations, checklists,expert tips, videos, and interactive quizzes (the latter leading to achievement badges which can be shared withfriends on Facebook and Twitter). All information is contained in-app, with no Internet connection required. Finally, the app supplies details about the activities of the British Red Cross, and refers to volunteering opportunities and Red Cross first-aid courses. [Note that the Red Cross in many other countries each produce their own versions of this app. One featured on this website is the app of theSvenska Rda Korset (Swedish Red Cross),Rda Korset Frsta hjlpen.]
Recovery Record| Recovery Record Helps people with an eating disorder to achieve recovery. Relies on cognitive-behaviour therapy (CBT) to help people with an eating disorder (including anorexia nervosa, binge-eating disorder, or bulimia nervosa) to achieve recovery. Also of interest to people with a more general weight problem. Allows the user to self-help, share their information with their treatment providers, or do both. Allows details about meals (and related thoughts and feelings) to be recorded without paper diaries. Reminders to eat can be set with alarm tones. Clinician can download a matching app. Progress towards achieving customised recovery goals can be tracked with charts. The app provides rewards for goals achieved. Treatment professionals can send feedback. Encouragement can be received from other similar users.
Hearing-Check| Hearing-Check Quick, simple, self-applied hearing test that does not require an appointment with a medical professional. Quick, simple, self-applied hearing test that does not require an appointment with a medical professional. Intended to check for sensorineural (inner-ear) hearing loss due to age or noise exposure (not conductive hearing losses, or problems with the outer or middle ear). The user carries out the test by listening to announced numbers, then entering them on the phones keypad. Results and advice are given.
WhatsMyM3| WhatsMyM3 27-question online questionnaire thatassesses auser's risk of anxiety, bipolar disorder, depression, or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). 27-question online questionnaire that assesses a user's risk of anxiety, bipolar disorder, depression, or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Results canbe tracked over time. The app is an attempt to gauge mental healthas a number (like blood pressure, cholesterol levels, and heart rate).
Refills App| Refills App Tracks the users remaining amounts of medications, displaying a countdown of the quantities left, and indicating how many days, weeks, or months, remain of each medication. Tracks the users remaining amounts of medications, displaying a countdown of the quantities left, and indicating how many days, weeks, or months, remain of each medication. Sends an alert about which medication is soon due for refill. The user can phone the doctor or pharmacy directly from the app. Trips or vacations can be planned against a summary of the medications that need to be refilled prior to departure.
Noom CardioTrainer| Noom CardioTrainer Tracks indoor and outdoor exercise activities, and indicates how many calories were burned. Tracks indoor and outdoor exercise activities, and indicates how many calories were burned. Utilises a GPS, pedometer, and interactive heart rate monitor. Voice output encourages engagement in exercise routines. A racing option with a high-score recording allows competitive activity to be carried out.
Liverpool HEP iChart| Liverpool HEP iChart Provides people who have hepatitis B or C with up-to-date information on potential drug interactions between hepatitis drugs and other drugs that the individual may be prescribed (also covers over-the-counter, recreational, and alternative medications). Provides people who have hepatitis B or C with up-to-date information on potential drug interactions between hepatitis drugs and other drugs that the individual may be prescribed (also covers over-the-counter, recreational, and alternative medications). Results are presented as a traffic-light system of red, amber, or green. The app is offline after being downloaded to the users device, and does not need an Internet connection during operation (except to download regular updates).
FMAUKFibroMapp| FMAUKFibroMapp For people with fibromyalgia. Tracks pain, fatigue, sleep, mood, medications, and flare ups. Tracks, pain, fatigue, sleep, mood, medications, and flare ups. Tracks pain (including severity, location, type, and activities that have helped with, or contributed to, pain). Flare ups can be recorded quickly by pressing a button. Tracks sleep (requires screen to be tapped to begin recording sleep or awakening). Tracks medications (including dosage). An alarm can be set to prevent over- or under-medication. A mood tracker allows emotions to be tracked. A fatigue tracker allows symptoms of fatigue to be noted. Other symptoms or conditions can be tracked. A journal of personal health can be kept. Charts and graphs of the user's health history can be downloaded for presentation to medical professionals.
Smart Foods - Organic Diet Buddy| Smart Foods - Organic Diet Buddy Allows the user to learn which foods are the most laden with pesticide residue. A pesticide-prevention app that allows the user to learn which foods (particularly fruit and vegetables) are the most laden with pesticide residue. Aims to show whether fruit and vegetables should be purchased in organic form, for safety reasons, or whether the consumer can feel safe to buy non-organic, conventionally-grown fruit and vegetables. Also contains a list of farmers markets (USA-specific), and nutritional information on fruit and vegetables. A Favourites list can be created. Also available on Amazon.
Jointly| Jointly Allows a carer to list their network of important personal contacts, and to share information with the contacts. Allows a carer to list their network of important personal contacts, and to share information with the contacts. Lists for action and for collaborative sharing can be created, such as to-do activities, finances, medications, holidays, etc.
Diabetes Diary| Diabetes Diary Diabetes diary for recording and tracking blood-glucose readings, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosing. Diabetes diary for recording and tracking blood-glucose readings, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosing. A user enters blood readings (in either mmol/L or mg/dl format). Insulin units and type can be selected via a brand list, or customised insulin and characteristics can be added. Dosing logs accept information as to which part of the body insulin is administered (the user selects via an injection-site distribution diagram; the percentage body part of total injection sites is also shown). Carbohydrate intake is recorded in grams, input manually. Each log contains contextual tags (including time and date, time of dayfor instance, before breakfast), and other notes. Aggregate data is displayed in graph format, covering timeframes of: average per day; last seven days, and month-by-month. Data can be backed-up via a built-in Dropbox web server, and exported as HTML and CSV, to send to carers or healthcare professionals.
SeeWord| SeeWord Word game to help people with a brain tumour remember and recognise words. Word game aimed at helping people with a brain tumour (or with any other condition that can reduce cognitive function) to remember and recognise words. Letters are moved around a grid. When lined up as words, the app awards points to the player (points can also be purchased).Can also be of use to people with other diseases that reduce cognitive function.
Wheelmate| Wheelmate Lets wheelchair users around the world locate lavatoriesaccessible to them. Lets wheelchair users around the world locate lavatoriesaccessible to them. Also indicates parking spaces. Listed lavatories might be public facilities, or situated in bars, restaurants, shops, etc. All locationshavebeen uploaded by people with a wheelchair who use the app. Information is kept up to date by users ratings of entries. Android version planned.
Diabetes App - blood sugar control, glucose tracker and carb counter| Diabetes App - blood sugar control, glucose tracker and carb counter Diabetes data-management app that allows the user to log and track factors which influence blood-sugar level. Diabetes data-management app that allows the user to log and track factors which influence blood-sugar level. Information that can be input includes body-mass index, blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, exercise activities, glucose levels, insulin and medication doses, water consumption, and weight. The app tracks trends over time, and will compute daily factor budgets (such as carbohydrate intake and body mass index) in calendar and graphic formats. An inbuilt offline database of 200,000-plus foods allows the user to calculate carbohydrates, relevant nutritional information (including calories, cholesterol, sodium, etc), and build recipes. Data can be backed up and restored over WiFi, and is password protected. Data can be shared via integrated Twitter, or emailed to healthcare professionals and carers.
RxmindMe Prescription| RxmindMe Prescription Prescription reminder that alerts the user to the need to take a prescription. Prescription reminder that alerts the user to the need to take a prescription. Many different categories of reminder can be scheduled, including: hourly; daily; on specific dates; weekly; on a particular day of the month; as needed; on a particular week of a month; or even medicine taken as a one-off. Prescription quantities count down as reminders are marked Taken. Allows phones with a camera to take photos of prescriptions. Prescription history can be emailed. Password protected. Also contains a searchable FDA Drug Database.
112 Iceland| 112 Iceland Allows a user to send a telephone message, text message, andGPS location to the emergency services in Iceland. Allows a user to send a telephone message, text message, andGPS location to the emergency services in Iceland. The user can select either oftwo languages (English or Icelandic) as the apps operating language. The GPS location sent will only be as precise as the users phone is able to deliver.
Calorie Counter & Diet Tracker| Calorie Counter & Diet Tracker Food and calorie tracker with a database ofa million-plus foods. Food and calorie tracker with a database of a million-plus foods. Contains a fitness tracker for logging workouts and calories burned, a 'quick-glance view' of calories eaten and burned, and a weigh-in page that graphs weight and progress over time. All features require users to log in to the app over a Wi-Fi, 3G or Edge network connection. Registration to the SparkPeople website gives access to healthy-living articles, fitness videos, and recipes.
Gi BodyGuard from the CDHF| Gi BodyGuard from the CDHF Food and calorie tracker with a database ofa million-plus foods. Allows people with a digestive disorder to record and track factors relevant to their intestinal health, with the aim of recognising trends, and creating a summary of health information to be shared with the doctor during the next visit. Factors that can be recorded and tracked include: symptoms; pain (location and severity); food consumed; stool details (consistency, frequency, presence of blood); weight; exercise levels; medications taken; medical history. Offers reminders to take medications and to renew prescriptions.
Afa-MICI| Afa-MICI Provides information on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), dieticians and hospitals, and on the activities of France-based patient group, Association Francois Aupetit (AFA). Provides information on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), dieticians and hospitals, and on the activities ofFrance-based patient group, Association Francois Aupetit (AFA). Contains a lavatory finder, allowing the user to also input the location of facilities not on the existing database. Brings access to AFA forum posts.
Ihobo| Ihobo Educational app intended to show the user how the UK-based charity Depaul UK works with homeless young people, and to give the user an idea of a typical young homeless persons daily activities and requirements. Educational app intended to show the user how the UK-based charity Depaul UK works with homeless young people, and to give the user an idea of a typical young homeless persons daily activities and requirements (including food, money, and shelter).
Dragon Dictation| Dragon Dictation Voice-recognition app that turns spoken words into on-screen text, which can be used as notes or as email. Voice-recognition app that turns spoken words into on-screen text, which can be used as notes or as email. The developer claims that the system is five times faster than typing words into the phone. An editing feature provides a list of suggested alternative words. Requires network connectivity. Functional in numerous languages.
ICE: In Case of Emergency| ICE: In Case of Emergency List of a users medical records. List of a users medical records. Intended to be accessed by first-responding medical personnel in the case of the user suffering accident or emergency. Contains information on the users allergies, blood type, contact details, health insurance, medical conditions, medications, name, and any other relevant personal medical details.
Lifesaver Mobile| Lifesaver Mobile Video-gaming style of instructing people in how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Video-gaming crisis simulator that instructs people in how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), a first-aid technique. Contains three interactive live-action films in which 50 decision-making steps are interspersed by mini games, with CPR being performed throughout. Users must answer multiple-choice questions and themselves carry out each stage of CPR. A voice-over reacts to the users actions or answers, explaining correct or wrong choices. Gaming elements aim to help users remain motivated. Time pressure is placed on participants, to encourage quick and accurate reactions. Each of the apps CPR scenarios takes 8-12 minutes to complete, and a score is produced at the end, which the user can share on social media.The app was designed to make users feel as if in an emergency, to minimise the risk of bystander syndrome in a real emergency.
Zombies, Run!| Zombies, Run! Audio-based exercise app intended to provide motivation to run/jog. Audio-based exercise app intended to provide motivation to run/jog. The app requires the user to wear headphones, and to follow a narrated story while out running/jogging. The story is set in an apocalyptic world populated by the living dead (zombies), and the user is personified as one of only a few human survivors. The app guides the user through a series of game-oriented tasks (including collecting items and building a base), while running from zombies. The faster the user runs, the more likely zombies are to beavoided, andextra items found. The user can choose to add and play custom music between narrated passages, or select from music files integrated into the app. Anoption focuses on interval training. Registration with the developers Zombielink allows the user to share results via Facebook or Twitter, view other peoples runs, and playback chases, to improve on timings. The app contains material sufficient for 40 runs/jogs.
AskIzzy| AskIzzy A mobile website to help homeless Australians search for local services for physical and mental health, shelter and other needs. Currently it is being expanded to improve how Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities can access health and well-being services.
Charity Miles| Charity Miles Allows a user to pick a charity (from a provided list), and raise money for it by sponsored cycling, running, or walking. Allows a user to pick a charity (from a provided list), and raise money for it by sponsored cycling, running, or walking. The app tracks progress and the money earned for the charity per mile. Requires a Facebook account.
Runtastic Pro| Runtastic Pro Tracks fitness activities (cycling, jogging, rowing or walking). Tracks fitness activities (cycling, jogging, rowing or walking). Routes can be created using Google Maps, and progress along them tracked by GPS. Colours on the routes note changes in speed, heart rate and elevation. Photographs can be taken during progress, and viewed online. Goals for heart rate, speed, or calories can be set, (and whole fitness plans can be accessed) and results viewed in graph form. Songs and stories can be activated to increase motivation. The app will recommend hydration levels. Details about post-activity mood can be added. Activities can be emailed, or shared on Facebook and Twitter. Contains no adverts. Integrates with MyFitnessPal and Apple Health.
Dr.DRIN| Dr.DRIN Designed to help the user manage medication compliance. Designed to help the user manage medication adherence, drDrin is able to make even the most complex therapy easier and safer. The users treatment requirements can be entered into the app, which will issue reminders at the appropriate time of the day about the need to take the medication (in the prescribed doses), thus avoiding the risk that the user forgets the medication (or takes it twice by mistake). The app checks that medications have been taken (or not taken) on the day, and allows reports about adherence to treatment to be exported to the users healthcare professional or directly shared. In addition, the tool also help in better manage the stock of drugs and refill it on time before they run out. drDrin is now available for Apple and Android. For the momentonly people in Italy are allowed to download the app because even if the app is also in English, Dr DRin has not yet integrated the english drug database.
Healthy Recipes - By SparkRecipes| Healthy Recipes - By SparkRecipes Allows 190,000 recipes to be browsed and searched, and favourites saved. Allows 190,000 recipes to be browsed and searched, and favourites saved. Browsing can be by course, by ethnicity, or by preparation time. Calories, carbohydrate content, and 10 other key nutrients are provided for each recipe. Many recipes are illustrated with photographs. Also contains videos of cooking techniques.
WhQuestions| WhQuestions Gameintended to help children ask "Why?", "When?", "Who?", "What?", "Where?", and "How?" (WH) questions. Game intended to help children ask "Why?", "When?", "Who?", "What?", "Where?", and "How?" (WH) questions. Graphs show results of answers to the 300 available interactive questions. Accommodates many players.
RCP Asfixia [CPR Choking in English-language version]| RCP Asfixia [CPR Choking in English-language version] Provides information on how to carry out cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), with a particular emphasis on aiding victims of choking. Provides information on how to carry out cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), with a particular emphasis on aiding victims of choking. Demonstrations of correct technique are shown in one-minute videos, and are compatible with the latest recommendations from relevant international organisations. Does not aim to be a substitute for training in CPR, merely a refresher. An English-language version is also available on Android, Apple and Windows Phone.
My NET Manager| My NET Manager Organisational tool for people with a neuroendocrine tumour. Tool for helping people who have a neuroendocrine tumour to organise information relevant to their condition. Allows five major elements of living with a neuroendocrine tumour to be tracked: doctors' appointments; test results; medications; insurance; and food consumed. Provides reminders. Information is summarised in graph form. Personal notes can be added. Enables the user to share information with their doctor. The app also contains background information aboutneuroendocrine tumours.
Glucose Buddy| Glucose Buddy Data-storage utility for people with diabetes. Data-storage utility for people with diabetes. Users can manually enter glucose numbers, carbohydrate consumption, insulin dosages, and activities. Inputted data can be viewed on a free online account supplied by the app developer. Reminders can be scheduled with push notification. The app can be integrated with CalorieTrack (a diet-and-exercise tracking app produced by a different developer), to make logging food and exercise activities easier.
MediSafe Meds and Pill Reminder| MediSafe Meds and Pill Reminder Medicationreminder. Medicationreminder andmanager. Reminds the user when to take medication with a customisable reminder sound. Also notifies the user if a family member has failed to take a scheduled medicationwith the aim of preventing over- or under-dosing family emergencies. Shows a list of medications due to be taken each day (and which can be checked off when taken). Reminds when new stocks of medicine are needed from the pharmacist. Lists take-as-needed (PRN) medicines. Details of the users compliance report can be emailed to a medical professional. Note that the developer aggregates user data to produce patient-behaviour information intended to help pharmaceutical companies better understand the problem of patient non-compliance with the taking of medicine.
MyFactor| MyFactor Helps people with haemophilia to record and track bleeds and infusions, and share the information with doctors. Helps people with haemophilia to record and track their bleeds and infusions, and to share the information with their doctors or caregivers. Bleeds can be recorded according to cause, location, pain, severity, and type. Text about, and photos of, bleeds can be added. Infusions can be recorded by dosage and lot numbers, with text added. Lot numbers of clotting factor are recorded by scanning barcodes. Reminders of, and alerts for, infusions can be set up. Records of bleeds and infusions can be organised by date, event, or keyword, and generated in PDF or plain text, and shared by email with doctors and other healthcare professionals.
LifeForceTeam Fertility| LifeForceTeam Fertility Visual consultation programme which aims to improve the chances of conception by bringing together the medical and spiritual factors that influence fertility. Visual consultation programme which aims to improve the chances of conception by bringing together the medical and spiritual factors that influence fertility. An in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) specialist guides the user through the medical processes of achieving optimum fertility. A counsellor does the same with a range of emotional clearing techniques and subconscious reprogramming exercises.
Grace - Picture Exchange for Non-Verbal People| Grace - Picture Exchange for Non-Verbal People Non-speaking, simple, picture-exchange system that can allow people with autism to express their needs independently. Non-speaking, simple, picture-exchange system that can allow people with autism to express their needs independently. Contains a basic vocabulary of pictures, which users select to form a sentence, communicating that by pointing at each picture card. A Category sort facility permits images to be added (taken with the phones camera, or stored photographs, or images saved from the Internet), deleted, or restored later. A Look card encourages shared attention.
Verbally| Verbally Alternative communication solution for people who have difficulty speaking. Alternative communication solution for people who have difficulty speaking. Brings speech to non-speaking people. The user types in what they want to say, and the app speaks it aloud. The user can decide whether the app speaks after each word is typed in, or only after a sentence is completed. A Steady hands feature makes typing easier for people with limited fine motor skills. Core words and phrases grids list essential words and phrases, to save typing time. Text prediction learns the users most-frequent words, to make self-expression easier. A choice of three keyboard layouts, and a male or female voice is offered.
My Friend Isabelle| My Friend Isabelle Illustrated story that can be used to encourage development of early reading skills in children. Illustrated story that can be used to encourage development of early reading skills in children. Particularly suitable for children with special needs.
Parkinson's Central| Parkinson's Central Provides information about Parkinson's disease, treatments, and living with the condition. Provides information about Parkinson's disease, treatments, and living with the condition. For people with the condition and their caregivers.
Spot a Stroke F.A.S.T.| Spot a Stroke F.A.S.T. Tool that teaches how to be aware of the symptoms of a stroke, and how to react. Tool that teaches how to be aware of the symptoms of a stroke, and how to react by phoning quickly for the emergency services (which can be done directly from the app). Contains an instructional video, and a list of American hospitals.
Mood Diary| Mood Diary App to help people to monitor and manage their mental health The anxiety New Zealand Trust Mood Diary app allows you to:
25 Tips to Surviving with Adult AD/HD by Maren Angelotti| 25 Tips to Surviving with Adult AD/HD by Maren Angelotti For adults with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (whether diagnosed or undiagnosed). For adults with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (whether diagnosed or undiagnosed). Offers 25 tips that aim to help identify learning difficulties. The writer of the app works with children and adults who experience difficulty learning.
MicroHealth Hemophilia| MicroHealth Hemophilia Helps people with haemophilia track their condition and report progress to their doctor. Helps people with haemophilia track their condition and report progress to their doctor. Allows infusions, bleeds, follow up, pictures, and lot numbers to be logged and tracked (barcodes of lots can be scanned). These records can be accessed anywhere. A PDF of a users log can be emailed to the doctor, or placed online at MicroHealth (where the doctor can view it). Profiles of dependents can be created. (The Spanish version is available in Android only.)
Meningitis Signs and Symptoms| Meningitis Signs and Symptoms Provides information on the common signs and symptoms of meningitis. Provides information on the common signs and symptoms of meningitis. Advises on what to do if meningitis is suspected, and how to get support. Includes a test-your-knowledge quiz.
CBT Keeper| CBT Keeper Relies on cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) to help the user overcome anxiety and depression. Takes the user in simple steps through the principles of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), with the aim of overcominganxiety and depression. Allows these conditions to be tracked on some of the standardised measuring tools of mental-health professionals,including the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and the Generalised Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7). Offers daily reminders, and sets goals. Provides game-like elements, to keep users motivated.Personal information stays stored in the users phone. Contains in-app advertisements, which can be disabled through the purchase of a premium upgrade. USA-based users can phone the country's National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. Now also available on Amazon.
Patients Know Best| Patients Know Best Support to manage your treatment and care Patients Know Best (PKB) aims to empower patients by providing them all their personal health information. Effectively allows you to carry your medical record around with you, including test results. You can choose with whom who you want to share your personal medical information. Privacy is attained by working within the countrys healthcare service. Only you and, whoever you choose, can decrypt the data. The app is only available through specific clinical settings in Australia, the United Kingdom, and United States. A list of available settings can be found at http://www.patientsknowbest.com/customers.html. (You need to click on the location to determine whether PKB is available. ) According to the organisations website . PKB is currently available at 90 sites worldwide.
GI Buddy| GI Buddy Health tracker for people withinflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Allows users withinflammatory bowel disease (IBD) to monitor the characteristics of their life relevant to their condition. Allows the following to be recorded: foods eaten; medication taken; and symptoms of IBD. Lifestyle and overall well-being can be monitored. Email reports of logged information can be shared with healthcare professionals.
CML Today| CML Today Enables patients with CML to track their medication, receive reminders and track their results. The app is not limited to a specific brand or manufacturer.
Lifesum  Lifestyle Tracker and Calorie Counter| Lifesum  Lifestyle Tracker and Calorie Counter Food and exercise diary aimed at European users. Food and exercise diary aimed at European users. Food entries can be recorded in grams, and weight recorded in either kilograms, or stones and pounds. Allows a personalised weight plan to be created around weight and nutrition goals. Tracks customisable daily calorie and nutrient information, and fruit and water intake. Also tracks body measurements, including those of arms, body fat, hips, and waist. Displays the users progress in charts. Daily comments can be written, and before-and-after photos added. Has a barcode scanner. Provides access to a database of 400,000 food items. Password protected. No advertisements. Works without an Internet connection. Can be backed up.
AsthmaTrack| AsthmaTrack Allows a user with asthma to record event information (such as environmental conditions, symptoms, treatments, and vital signs) that may be relevant to asthma. Allows a user with asthma to record event information (such as environmental conditions, symptoms, treatments, and vital signs) that may be relevant to asthma. Pre-loaded event templates can be customised to log important information. Records can be saved, then emailed for archiving, printing, or sharing with a doctor. Multiple logs can be kept, perhaps for family members. Information is stored locally on the users phone (waiting to sync, upload, or login to a remote site is therefore unnecessary).
PD Life| PD Life Aims to give people with Parkinsons disease (and their carers) real-time management of the condition. Aims to give people with Parkinsons disease (and their carers) real-time management of the condition. Allows medications and dosages to be recorded. Schedules medication reminders, and tracks ability to take medication on time. Documents and reports symptoms and side effects. Intended to be taken to consultations with healthcare professionals. The user can opt to contribute basic healthcare data anonymously to the PD Life database, and participate in future surveys on understanding the experience of being a person living with Parkinsons (or a carer).
Phaware365| Phaware365 Global social media to raise awareness of pulmonary hypertension (PH) Social app enabling people to support a global campaign to raise awareness of pulmonary hypertension, a rare chronic lung disease that can lead to heart failure.
MyMedRec| MyMedRec Portable health record that can be shared with doctors or anyone else involved in a users healthcare. Portable health record that can be shared with doctors or anyone else involved in a users healthcare. Allows medicine consumption to be tracked, and records when medicine was taken. Offers dose reminders, reminders of prescription refills and medical appointments, plus due dates for immunisation. The following health-related elements can also be recorded: allergies, blood pressure, cholesterol, healthcare providers, immunisations, medications and natural products, and personal health-related notes. Family details can be added. All or parts of the record can be emailed. Password protected, and encrypted.
UP| UP Wearable which tracks activity, diet, and sleep. Tracks activity, diet, and sleep. Syncs with a purchasable UP or UP24 wristband to track the activity, diet, and sleep of a person wearing the band. Tracking movement: tracks steps taken, logs workouts, and produces reports on activity levels. Tracking food: logs food and drink, tracks nutritional information, counts calories, identifies frequently-eaten foodstuffs or meals, and a food score allows the user to consider the healthiness of food eaten. Tracks sleep patterns, and suggests ways to improve sleep. Alarms and reminders can be set to wake the user up. Creates potential goals. Allows family and friends to participate in competitive activities. Connects to other health/fitness apps.
Dexcom| Dexcom Training and educational app for use with the Dexcom 7 glucose-management sensor. Training and educational app for use with the Dexcom 7 glucose-management sensor. Contains training videos, educational materials, and step-by-step guides on how to insert the Dexcom sensor. A list of frequently-asked questions, and support contact information from which sensor supplies can be re-ordered is also present on the app.
Back to Action| Back to Action Displaysexercises suitable for people with ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Displays exercises suitable for people with ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Can be used as part of a normal daily exercise routine, at home, or in a gym. Categories of exercise include: breathing exercises, cardiovascular, flexibility and mobility. An 'Exercise diary' sets out a potential week of exercises. Also provides information aboutclasses andsports suitable for people with AS. One section explains AS for gym staff.
Locabulary Lite| Locabulary Lite Utilises the audio output of the phone to speak words, phrases, and sentences, whether for emergencies, everyday activities, pleasure, or teaching. Utilises the audio output of the phone to speak words, phrases, and sentences, whether for emergencies, everyday activities, pleasure, or teaching. GPS allows local points of interest (PoIs) to be displayed.
Instant Heart Rate| Instant Heart Rate Measures heart rate and pulse. Measures heart rate and pulse. Uses the phones camera to detect the pulse in a users fingertip. The app beeps in time with the pulse. A real-time chart (an EKG-like graph) shows every heart beat. Can be shared to Facebook, Twitter, and other social networks.
Lose It!| Lose It! Allows a user to set weight-loss goals, establish a daily calorie budget to meet them, andto record food consumption and exercise levels. Allows a user to set weight-loss goals, establish a daily calorie budget to meet them, and to record food consumption and exercise levels. Contains a database of foods and activities. New foods or exercises can be added. Recipes for more complicated foods can be input. Previous meals and other shortcuts speed up entry. Consumption of nutrients (such as carbohydrates, fat, protein) can be tracked. Works with or without a network connection. Setting up a free 'Loseit.com' account allows access to further features.
Lab Tests Online| Lab Tests Online Helps users understand the results of their diagnostic tests. Lists laboratory tests. Provides information on how the tests are conducted, andcruciallywhat the test results might mean for the patient. Details common diseases and the tests that identify and monitor them. Also carries general facts about pathology laboratories, illustrating the way they work, and the people who work in them.Contains articles that summarise scientific concepts in easy-to-understand terminology. Also includes regular news updates about pathology and laboratory medicine. US and Australian versions also available.
BHF PocketCPR| BHF PocketCPR Provides real-time feedback, and visual and audio instructions, on how to learn and practice hands-only cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Provides real-time feedback, and visual and audio instructions, on how to learn and practice hands-only cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Utilises the accelerometer hardware in the phone to measure the rate and depth of the users practice compressions, warning whether pushes need to be faster or slower, harder or softer. A metronome paces chest compressions. Can capture CPR compression and accelerometer data, allowing the user to record the quality of their training. Results can be emailed.
Play to Cure: Genes in Space| Play to Cure: Genes in Space Space-themed game designed to help cancer researchers analyse data on breast cancer. Space-themed game designed to utilise the principles of crowdsourcing to help cancer researchers at Cancer Research UK's Cambridge Institute mass-analyse data on breast-cancer genes. The more people who play the game, the more valuable the data analysis reaching the cancer researchers. Can be played offline or online.
Cancergraph| Cancergraph An app to help people with cancer to track symptoms and side effects over days, months and years. Track their cancer symptoms and side effects over days, months, and years, record each symptom's severity, time of day or night and location of occurrence, Build graphs and daily experience reports to help explain results to their doctors and caregivers.
Parkinson mPower study app| Parkinson mPower study app A research app to help understand why some people with Parkinson's Disease have different symptoms than other people with Parkinson's Disease, The app is effectively a study sponsored by Sage Bionetworks, a non-profit research organization, with funding from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. A number of academic institutions and patient organisations have supported its development. The app will monitor your health and symptoms of PD progression like dexterity, balance and gait using questionnaires and sensors via the Parkinson mPower mobile phone application and wearable devices if available. By participating in this study you can help the researchers learn the range of PD symptoms and find out whether mobile devices can help measure PD progression and manage these symptoms better.
Bemyeyes| Bemyeyes Bemyeyes creates a live video connection between a visually-impaired person and a sighted volunteer when they need remote help. The app currently supports around more than 32,000 visually-impaired people through a global network of around 450,000 sighted volunteers.
Fertility Friend Ovulation| Fertility Friend Ovulation Intended to improve the chances of conception. Intended to improve the chances of conception. A colour-coded fertility calendar allows periods, fertile days, and ovulation to be tracked. Data that can be entered includes cervical fluid, daily notes, medications, symptoms, and temperature. Password protected. Integrated with the ovulation prediction facilities of the 'FertilityFriend.com' website.
Pill Reminder Pro (Push Notification)| Pill Reminder Pro (Push Notification) Reminder to take medications on time. Reminder to take medications on time. The user enters the name of the pill, dosage, frequency, and what time(s) of day to take the medication. The app sends the user push-alert reminders of when to take the medication.
ArthritisID| ArthritisID Contains information on detecting, treating and managing arthritis. Contains information on detecting, treating and managing arthritis. Types of arthritis considered by the app include ankylosing spondylitis, gout, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, lupus, osteoarthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis. Information on the prevention of arthritis includes facts about exercise, diet and nutrition. Treatment strategies and details about medication are discussed. An interactive arthritis screening tool and questionnaire helps the user detect indications of arthritis. Personal information about arthritis screenings can be saved.
MyTherapy Med Reminder Pillbox| MyTherapy Med Reminder Pillbox Pill reminder and health tracker MyTherapy reminds you to take your medication, to get active and to track your vitals and symptoms. At the same time MyTherapys health journal summarises your medication intake and other health-related information. You will worry less about managing your therapy. Instead you will find it very reassuring that your therapy is completely under control. On privacy: By implementing the guidelines of Germanys Federal Office for Information Security, the app exceeds current legal requirements to ensure data protection. For registration you need nothing but a valid email address. Providing additional health information is completely voluntary, although the app is better tailored to your needs if more information is provided. Smart Patient will only ever contact you if you explicitly opt-in.
HAE Attack Tracker| HAE Attack Tracker Symptom and treatment diary for people with hereditary angioedema (HAE). Symptom and treatment diary for people with the rare and potentially life-threatening swelling disorder, hereditary angioedema (HAE). Allows the user to record information about attacks, including warning signs and potential triggers, date, location on the body, length of time experienced, and treatment taken. Personal notes and photographs can be added to entries. The app charts the stored information over time, according to common attack triggers, location of attacks, frequency, and severity. Data can be emailed to the users doctor. The 911 emergency call button is USA-specific.
Chemo Brain Doc Notes Free| Chemo Brain Doc Notes Free Recording tool to help patients gain the most from a visit to a doctor. Recording tool that aims to help patients gain the most from a visit to a doctor. Particularly aimed at people with cancer who are suffering from chemotherapy-induced memory loss ('chemo brain'), but also of value to any patient. The app allows the user to record memos via text or voice about the subjects that need to be raised at the next visit to the doctor. Voice recording can be initiated with a simple tap. Comments made by the doctor during the visit to the doctor can also be recorded by text or by voice. Information can be stored in folders under categories such as 'side effects', 'symptoms', 'prescriptions', and 'test results'. An in-app purchase unlocks the ability to email the recordings to family or carers.
Chest PT| Chest PT Timer for parentswhoperform manual chest physiotherapy (PT) on a child who has cystic fibrosis. Timer for parents who perform manualphysical therapy (PT) on the chest ofa child living with cystic fibrosis. Issues a reminder when a session of PT positions is due. Allows the various positions of thePT session to be specified, and a length of time set forthe positions to be maintained(minutes per position). A customised sound to mark the end of each PT position can be added. Rest periods can be built in, to relieve fatigue.A 'good-job' screen appears at the end of a session of PT positions, to act as a reward for the participating child. The app is designed to be simple and uncomplicated.
Sleep Cycle Alarm Clock| Sleep Cycle Alarm Clock Biorhythm alarm clock. Biorhythm alarm clock. When the phone is placed in the users bed, the app analyses the users sleep patterns, and sets off the morning wake-up alarm call when the user is in the lightest sleep phase. Since people move differently in bed during the different phases of sleep, the appexploits the phones accelerometer to monitor the users movement, and determine the sleep phase. The apps 30-minute alarm window ends at the users set alarm time.
Restaurant Nutrition| Restaurant Nutrition Restaurant guide that allows the user to track restaurant meals eaten, and to view nutritional information on the 60,000-plus food items held in the menus of over 250 restaurants. Restaurant guide that allows the user to track restaurant meals eaten, and to view nutritional information on the 60,000-plus food items held in the menus of over 250 restaurants. Food contents quantified includes calories, carbohydrates, fats, and protein. Food allergens and gluten-free foods can be searched for in the apps database. Restaurants can be searched for, hidden as irrelevant, or marked as favourites. Maps show restaurant locations. Multiple users can input a record of meals consumed, tracking and setting diet goals with individual profiles. The app operates either connected to the Internet, or standalone (saving data to the device). Details of meals consumed can be posted to Facebook. The user can contact the developer to update restaurant menus, or to request the insertion of restaurants not held in the database. A paid in-app update offers the user further facilities.
BlueLoop| BlueLoop Allows a user to recorddiabetes-related personalinformation, including blood glucose levels, carbohydrate consumption, and medication. Allows a user to record diabetes-related personal information, including blood glucose levels, carbohydrate consumption, and medication. Details can be emailed.
Safe & Sound| Safe & Sound Addresses a way for teens to manage stress and feelings of depression. A team of five high school students from Tri-Tech Skills Center was named Best in Nation winners for the Verizon Innovative App Challenge .Their app called Safe & Sound addresses a way for teens to manage stress and feelings of depression.
Iron tracker-Hemochromatosis| Iron tracker-Hemochromatosis The App helps people with hereditary haemochromatosis (the Canadians and US spell it hemochromatosis) track their test results and venesection treatment Graphical tool to help people with hereditary haemochromatosis (the Canadians and US spell it hemochromatosis) track their test results and venesection treatment, combines appointment management with tracking and visualization of bodily haemoglobin and ferritin values.
ShoulderDoc| ShoulderDoc Provides information on shoulder problems. Provides information on shoulder problems. Provides information on shoulder problems and potential treatments. Helps the user self-diagnose personal shoulder problems. Includes facts on shoulder problems after a shoulder operation. Contains videos and animations on shoulder problems and treatment. Allows the user to book an appointment with a shoulder surgeon.Len Funk is based at the NHS hospital Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh,
Mayo Clinic| Mayo Clinic Health-management app for people who are patients at a Mayo Clinic in the USA. Health-management app for people who are patients at a Mayo Clinic in the USA. Health-management app for people who are patients at a Mayo Clinic in the USA. Allows the user to request an appointment, or a change/re-scheduling to an appointment, and avoid being placed on hold by being contacted later with a confirmation. The users own medical professionals can also be contacted (securely) through the app. Laboratory-, pathology-, and radiology-test results can be viewed as soon as the users doctor sees them. The users personal health record can be accessed from the app. The health details of the user's family can be managed from the app if they are Mayo Clinic patients. Educational videos and other information are contained in the app. Designed to operate on an iPhone in conjunction with the Apple Health app, so that both apps function together.
Glucool Diabetes Premium| Glucool Diabetes Premium Diabetes management app that allows blood glucose, blood pressure, body-mass index (BMI), carbohydrate intake, exercise, HbA1c, insulin and medication doses, and weight to be tracked. Diabetes management app that allows blood glucose, blood pressure, body-mass index (BMI), carbohydrate intake, exercise, HbA1c, insulin and medication doses, and weight to be tracked. Data (such as blood glucose, carbohydrates, insulin) can be inputted directly, or sourced via the apps insulin-dose calculator. Customisable information fields permit irrelevant information to be hidden, or out-of-range readings spotted. A user-programmable alarm system can highlight key moments (such as two hours after a meal). Functions with mg/dL and mmol/L units; lbs and kgs; inches and cms. The graphs and statistics generated can be emailed to carers and healthcare professionals. No longer seems available on Android. Seems to be available on Amazon. However Facebook page has not been updated since 2010.
Verbal Victor| Verbal Victor Utilises images to help carers, parents, and teachers better understand the needs of children with limited communication skills. Utilises images to help carers, parents, and teachers better understand the needs of children with limited communication skills. Aimed particularly at children with special needs.
Trygfonden Hjertestart [Tryg Foundation Heart Start]| Trygfonden Hjertestart [Tryg Foundation Heart Start] App intended to help first-responding members of the public who happen to be on scene when someone requires cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). App intended to help first-responding members of the public who happen to be on scene when someone requires cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). The app comprises three components. Firstly, it allows the user to quickly call the emergency services on 112. Secondly, maps show the user the way to the nearest publicly-available portable defibrillator device (AED). Thirdly, it offers instructions in how to perform manual CPR.
iAdvocate| iAdvocate Instructs parents on how to liaise with schools and educational facilities, with the aim of ensuring that a child's needs are met. Instructs parents on how to liaise with schools and educational facilities, with the aim of ensuring that a child's needs are met. Particularly useful for the parents of children with special needs.
FoodSwitch| FoodSwitch Instructs parents on how to liaise with schools and educational facilities, with the aim of ensuring that a child's needs are met. Uses the smartphones camera (autofocus camera lenses required) to scan the barcodes of supermarket food. Rates each food item for its contents of four criteria (total fat; saturated fat; salt; sugar) on a simple traffic-light colour-coded scale (red for high, amber for moderate, and green for low). Suggests healthier alternatives after searching a database of foods created by researchers. Favourite foods can be saved as personalised shopping lists. The lists can be emailed to family or friends, or shared via Facebook or Twitter. The app is only available in three countries; in Australia, it can show nutritional information for 38,000 products; in New Zealand, for more than 8,000 products in New Zealand; and in the UK, for more than 90,000 products. Especially useful for people with coeliac disease or gluten intolerance, high blood pressure, heart disease, or kidney disease.
Traffic Light Food Tracker| Traffic Light Food Tracker Aims to help people eat more healthily by demonstrating the effectiveness of the traffic-light rating of food content which appears on food packaging. Aims to help people eat more healthily by demonstrating the effectiveness of the traffic-light rating of food content which appears on food packaging. The user types in each packaged foods fat, saturated fat, sugar and sodium content per 100 grams, and the app calculates a traffic-light evaluation (green for low, amber for medium, and red for high). The idea is for the user to be able to limit the number of red lights in the shopping trolley, and insteadfavour products awarded a green light by the app.
Cancer iOncolex| Cancer iOncolex Provides patients (and their carers and families) with information on up to three cancers (breast, lung and prostate), supported by interactive illustrations, photos and videos. Now only available via website. The app version is no longer supported. Provides patients (and their carers and families) with information on up to three cancers (breast, lung and prostate), supported by interactive illustrations, photos and videos. A medical dictionary gives simple explanations of medical terms. Has a search function, and a user can store bookmarks. Text, images and illustrations run without a network connection, which is only needed for viewing videos.
Prizmo| Prizmo Scans and recognises text documents, bills, business cards, whiteboards, etc, then allows the text to be shared across computers and with other people through the cloud. Scans and recognises text documents, bills, business cards, whiteboards, etc, then allows the text to be shared across computers and with other people through the cloud. Saves the user from having to type text. Extracts information (such as first and last names, company, job title, phone numbers, email, website, address) to create contacts on the phone, or to be shared. No Internet connection is required for image processing. A text-to-speech facility that lets the app read out aloud any scanned texts (choice of 35 voices in 10 languages) is available through a further in-app purchase.
Amber Homeless Helper| Amber Homeless Helper Helps people in the UK who are homeless (and their providers of social care) to locate resources within a given geographical radius of their phone. Helps people in the UK who are homeless (and their providers of social care) to locate resources within a given geographical radius of their phone. A user can search for the category of resources required (for instance, a day centre). Information about the resource (such as cost, opening hours, etc) is supplied. Navigation instructions and a map plot a route to the resource by bus, car, or on foot. The app relies on the principle that ownership of smart phones has become so ubiquitous that many (perhaps even most) people who are homeless own one.
Solve the Outbreak| Solve the Outbreak Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) game in which the user acts as a roving epidemiologist investigating outbreaks of infectious disease around the world. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) game in which the user acts as a roving CDC epidemiologist aiming to solve the causes of outbreaks of infectious disease. 12 outbreaks around the world are featured, all based on actual events dealt with by CDC specialists. Users are given clues and tips on investigating infection, then study on-site facts in an attempt to piece together the reasons for an upsurge in disease cases. Users are required to decide how to deal with the outbreak (for instance, by requesting more laboratory analysis, or calling for help in examining more people, or by isolating settlements through forcible quarantine). Points are awarded for successful action, leading to a final achievement award.
iheadache| iheadache Headache diary that allows the number of headaches, their duration and severity, the degree of disability and impact, medication and usage, symptoms, and triggers to all be tracked. Headache diary that allows the number of headaches, their duration and severity, the degree of disability and impact, medication and usage, symptoms, and triggers to all be tracked. Classifies headaches according to criteria expressed by a UK-based medical professionals' organisation, the International Headache Society, as a migraine, probable migraine, tension headache or unclassified headache. Information can be broken down by seven-, 28-, or 30-day slots. Can generate reports to share with a doctor (the information and analysis units have been designed to help the users doctor design a treatment plan). Free Lite version only retains data for 2 weeks, and also contains advertisements. (One of the three highest-scoring headache apps assessed in Huguet; Hundert; McGrath; Stinson; and Wheaton, Commercially-available mobile-phone headache diary apps: a systematic review,
uHear| uHear Self-administered hearing test. A set of three self-administered tests intended to give the user an indication as to whether hearing is within a normal range, or whether hearing loss is present. The tests are: 'hearing sensitivity', to determine the quietest sounds that can be heard; 'speech in noise', a measurement of ability to hear speech when background noise is present (requires headphones to administer); and a questionnaire about ability to hear in common listening situations. Also provides information aboutabout healthcare professionals to contact if hearing loss is suspected.
Parkinsons| Parkinsons Designed to help medical professionals recognise the symptoms of Parkinsons disease (PD), and then diagnose and treat the condition. Designed to help medical professionals recognise the symptoms of Parkinsons disease (PD), and then diagnose and treat the condition. Although the app is not aimed at patients, the funder of the app, the Parkinsons Association of Ireland, an Ireland-based patient group specialising in Parkinson's disease, is asking patients with Parkinson's to inform their GP of the existence of the app. The Association hopes that such action by patients will increase uptake of the app by medical professionals, resulting in healthcare staff being more knowledgeable about PD. The Association has produced a leaflet about the app for patients to take to their doctors [see http://bit.ly/T0TJjf].
Epocrates| Epocrates Provides safety information about medicines. Provides safety information on medicines One out of two US physicians rely on Epocrates to enable better patient care. Provides safety information about medicines. As a drug interaction checker, the app permits the investigation of potentially-harmful interactions between up to 30 medicines at any one time. A pill identifier feature allows single pills to be identified by their appearance and by imprint code. Information is offered on the drugs covered by US insurance companies and schemes. A directory of providers (USA only) shows the location and contact details of the nearest specialists. The app can also be used on a desktop computer. It is primarily intended for medical professionals, but can also be of value to interested patients.
Zoom Plus Video Magnifier| Zoom Plus Video Magnifier Video magnifier. Video magnifier. Intended to make text easier to read by zooming in with the phones camera. Allows the colours and the contrast of both the text and the background to be changed, which is helpful for people with colour blindness, dyslexia, or reduced visual capacity. The quality of the results will depend on the quality of the camera and processor in the users phone (the higher the quality of each, the sharper the final images, and the faster they can be processed). No advertising on the app.
MedTracker| MedTracker Medication tracker that records the dates and times when over-the-counter (OTC) or prescription medications have been taken. Medication tracker that records the dates and times when over-the-counter (OTC) or prescription medications (and including take-as-needed, or PRN, medications) have been taken. Aims to help the user know when the last dose of medication was taken, and to be aware of the appropriate next time to take medication. Displays the patients name (the app can track the medication intake of multiple members of the family), the previous time that medication was taken, the dosage, and the intake history for a single medication. Overdue doses can be shown. Notification sounds can be set. Intake history and summary can be exported in comma-separated values (CSV) files.
C25K - 5K Trainer Free| C25K - 5K Trainer Free Provides training in how to run for five kilometres. Fitness and training app that provides instruction, over the course of an 8-week period, in how to build up to a five-kilometre run. Intended for people who cannot, at the moment, run such a distance. Functions with indoor treadmills as well as outdoors. Allows personal choice of music to be played while working out/running. Links with MyFitnessPal to estimate calories burned during a workout/run. Information about progress can be placed on Facebook or Twitter.Developer partners with the New York-based Breast Cancer Research Foundation (BCRF).
Epilepsy Tool Kit| Epilepsy Tool Kit Helps people with epilepsy manage and improve their own health via seizure-management tools. Helps people with epilepsy manage and improve their own health via seizure-management tools. Contains an interactive seizure diary that allows time, type, and length of seizure to be recorded, and a code assigned to each type of seizure. Information in the app offers an overview of the approximately 40 different types of seizures, plus medication facts, details on managing epilepsy, and advice on first aid. Developed after consultation with young people (to which the app may have particular appeal). [Note that a very similar/identical app is also available on Apple from the Epilepsy Society/MCM Net, titled Epilepsy Guide; http://bit.ly/LRGwZv]
Doctoralia| Doctoralia Allows doctors and medical centres to be located (including the closest to the user). Allows doctors and medical centres to be located (including the closest to the user). Search facility can be filtered by name and specialty. Details of favourite healthcare professionals can be saved for future access to contact details. Reviews of healthcare professionals made by other users of the app can be read. The app permits the user to contact the healthcare facilities found.
iCouch CBT| iCouch CBT Allows people living with anger, anxiety, bipolar disorder, depression, or stress to record negative thoughts. Allows people living with anger, anxiety, bipolar disorder, depression, or stress to record negative thoughts. Allows people (particularly people living with anger, anxiety, bipolar disorder, depression, or stress) to record their negative thoughts, with the aim of improving personal outlook. Relies upon cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) to help the user solve emotional problems by undergoing a goal-oriented training in how to change personal reaction to negative events. The CBT procedure is experienced through a step-by-step methodology. A What happened screen allows a log of negative reactions to be entered, with further steps helping the user to reach some form of emotional resolution. Personal details can be emailed to a therapist, or to an iCouch psychologist, who (for $7.99), will email advice. Password protected. Also allows the user to locate a potential therapist, schedule an appointment, and have a virtual consultation.
Wheelmap| Wheelmap OpenStreetMap that shows ramps and other disability-friendly access facilities. OpenStreetMap that shows ramps and other disability-friendly access facilities. Updates its information through crowdsourcing technology, in which numerous users contribute data (users must register with Wheelmap.org and OpenStreetMap if they wish to update maps). Intended for people with a wheelchair or a walking frame (and also for for parents with pushchairs).
Angry Birds| Angry Birds Game involving characters modelled on birds and pigs, and which is said to feature physics-based gameplay. Game involving characters modelled on birds and pigs, and which is said to feature physics-based gameplay. Each level in the game requires force, logic, and skill to solve.
DocReady| DocReady Doc Ready helps you get ready for the first time you visit a doctor to discuss your mental health Doc Ready helps you get ready for the first time you visit a doctor to discuss your mental health
SmallTalk Pain Scale| SmallTalk Pain Scale Allows people who cannot speak (particularly people with aphasia, apraxia, or dysarthria) to communicateamount andtype of painfelt to other people (including caregivers, family members, and healthcare professionals). Allows people who cannot speak (particularly people with aphasia, apraxia, or dysarthria) to communicate amount and type of pain felt to other people (including caregivers, family members, and healthcare professionals). Provides a vocabulary of pictures that talk in a natural human voice. The apps pain scale is based on images and descriptions of pain from the Wong-Baker Faces Pain Scale.
SmallTalk Aphasia - Female| SmallTalk Aphasia - Female Provides a vocabulary of pictures and videos that talk in a natural human voice. Provides a vocabulary of pictures and videos that talk in a natural human voice. Allows a user to express wishes (or to practice common words and phrases). A user can access everyday words appropriate in, for example, doctors appointments, emergencies, shopping, and telephone conversations. A speech-generation engine helps to personalise and expand the vocabulary. A collection of mouth-position videos encourage practice and self-cuing for people who seek to recoverspeech skills during stroke rehabilitation.
Special Words| Special Words Interactive app that allows children with Downs syndrome to learn at their own pace. Interactive app that allows children with Downs syndrome to learn at their own pace. Comes with 96 written words that children use in their early vocabulary. Includes matching pictures, written and spoken words. Can be personalised by reordering, deleting and adding other words, pictures and audio, to increase a childs interest, and further develop their reading vocabulary. Part of UK charity Down Syndrome Education (DSE)International's See and Learn programme of educational material for children with Downs syndrome, and partner to the Special Stories app. One of 12 apps selected as a finalist in the 2013Vodafone Foundation Mobile for Good Europe Awards.
Skill Tracker Pro| Skill Tracker Pro Automates applied behavior-analysis instruction. Automates applied behavior-analysis instruction. Assigns skills and targets for each child. Records video, and generates graphs.
Global Corporate Challenge| Global Corporate Challenge Designed to be used during the annual Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) walk, a virtual event intended to promote personal fitness and better health. Android app no longer seems available. Designed to be used during the annual Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) walk, a virtual event intended to promote personal fitness and better health. The app logs progress made in walking the virtual event by seconds, and by daily step totals (includes automatic syncing of steps taken). A virtual GCC journey contains location visuals and descriptions. Motivational tips and advice from the GCC coach are offered. The app requires the user to have a pedometer.
SymTrac| SymTrac Tracks the symptoms of Multiple Sclerosis as well asrelapses on current treatment. SymTrac is a free app that helps people with MS track general wellbeing and symptoms over time. The data recorded can be viewed in easy-to-read charts and shared with MS specialist teams to make the most of vital consultation time and support decision making. Approved as safe by the NHS Library of Health Apps.
Chatable| Chatable ChatAble enable people to communicate using symbols and graphics. ChatAble is a communication app which acts as both a grid communication aid, and a scene display app. These two proven formats have been brought together to provide an easy new system for users to interact with other people in a fun and meaningful way. ChatAble is designed for people with autism, cerebral palsy, aphasia and a range of users who require aided communication.ChatAble is the first iOS application in the world to contain ModeTalker voices, which allow a user to create their own synthetic voice  for free  with their own accent, pitch and cadence. ModelTalker also allows the user to bank their own voice, or have a friend or relative give their voice to use; ModelTalker voices let the user sound like themselves again.For those who have physical impairments, switch access makes it possible to communicate using ChatAble without touching the screen. You can use one or two switches to control the scanning and change the scanning features (e.g. scanning rate or number of cycles). The app is CE certified.
HelpTalk| HelpTalk Provides a list of phrases and images that can allow people who have trouble vocalising to communicate some of their needs and feelings. Provides a list of phrases and images that can allow people who have trouble vocalising to communicate some of their needs and feelings. Needs specified by the user are spoken by the app. Expressions not available in the lists can be typed in as custom sentences, which are then read by the text-to-speech engine. Can be customised to a users particular needs, condition, or disability. A pre-set SOS message can be sent. A pre-arranged call from a designated telephone number will also trigger the app into sending back a reply, with the users current location.
MyAsthma| MyAsthma Aims to help people with asthma (aged over 12) to manage their condition. Aims to help people with asthma (aged over 12) to manage their condition. Contains information, tips, and reminders about asthma. An Asthma control test and monitoring chart let the user record and review progress. Individual feelings about asthma can be added and charted in a Visual diary. An Environment dashboard allows the user to consider the potential asthma triggers of atmospheric-pressure levels, local pollen and pollution levels, and temperature. The user can receive informational notifications based on a personalised profile. Reports about progress can be emailed to healthcare professionals.
iMean| iMean Turns an iPad into a letterboard, with large, easy-to-read keys, and word suggestions to help a person with autism-spectrum disorder communicate thoughts. Turns an iPad into a letterboard, with large, easy-to-read keys, and word suggestions to help a person with autism-spectrum disorder communicate thoughts. Speaks input text with a male or female voice.
Parkinsons EasyCall| Parkinsons EasyCall Enables phone calls to be made with a single touch to the smartphone screen. Enables people with a movement disability or with Parkinson's to make phone calls with only a single touch to the smartphone screen. The user can enter contact names and numbers, which are displayed as large round 'buttons' on the screen. A single touch to a button will initiate a phone call to that contact person.
iTriage| iTriage Helps the user work out what medical condition they may have. Helps the user work out what medical condition they may have. Lists thousands of diseases, medications, procedures, and symptoms. Also allows personal healthcare information to be saved and stored as a personal health record (PHR) with Microsoft HealthVault. The apps other major facility is only of value in the United States: the app lists healthcare providers in that country (community health clinics, doctors, hospitals, outpatient clinics, and pharmacies, etc).
Behavior Tracker Pro| Behavior Tracker Pro Allows carers, healthcare professionals, parents, andteachers to track the behaviour patterns of children, and to present them in graph form. Allows carers, healthcare professionals, parents, and teachers to track the behaviour patterns of children, and to present them in graph form.
Prompt| Prompt An app which helps people live with memory problems such as early dementia or as a result of stroke or brain injury. The prompt app is supported by two patient organisations:
Glucagon| Glucagon Guide for people with diabetes (and their carers) in the emergency administration of the Eli Lilly product, Glucagon. Guide for people with diabetes (and their carers) in the emergency administration of the Eli Lilly product, Glucagon. A user can practice through touch-screen simulations in a step-by-step process. Onscreen animation tutorials with optional audio instruction provide hands-free guidance in an emergency. The locations of Glucagon kit and its expiration dates can be inputted, with reminders automatically alerting to when new kits should be obtained. Contains safety information on Glucagon for both healthcare professionals and patients. Important medical information can be inputted in the Notes section for review with a healthcare professional.
Aidsmap news| Aidsmap news Offers latest daily news on the topic of HIV/AIDS. Offers latest daily news on the topic of HIV/AIDS. Features reports on new findings and research in HIV treatment and prevention from around the world. Also covers key developments in hepatitis and tuberculosis.
Dbees.com| Dbees.com Diabetes management app for people with type-1, type-2, gestational, latent-autoimmune diabetes of adulthood (LADA), or secondary diabetes. Diabetes management app for people with type-1, type-2, gestational, latent-autoimmune diabetes of adulthood (LADA), or secondary diabetes. The app is part of an integrated diabetes-support system, with the 'dbees.com' website as the main hub. The user can input diabetes type, treatment types (insulin, pills, pumps) and units, blood glucose, blood pressure, carbohydrate intake, diet, and exercise activity. All data input by the user is synchronised on the users Web-based account, allowing for back-up of records, and further in-depth analysis. The user can then review data in an array of customisable graphs, create personalised daily planners, and set reminders to input data on a regular basis. The secure connection allows data to be shared with carers and healthcare professionals.
DAFNE Online| DAFNE Online Allows the user to remain connected with the DAFNE Online support network for people with type-1 diabetes who have attended the Dose Adjustment For Normal Eating (DAFNE) course. Allows the user to remain connected with the DAFNE Online support network for people with type-1 diabetes who have attended the Dose Adjustment For Normal Eating (DAFNE) course. The app has a blood-glucose diary that allows blood-glucose levels, and carbohydrate and insulin intake, to be recorded and uploaded to the users DAFNE online account. Blood-glucose targets can be specified for different times of day. Diary results are colour coded, to show below or above target. The app will auto-calculate insulin dosage. Backup of data can be set to manual or automatic. Also contains information about the carbohydrate content of portions (accessible without an Internet connection).
Treatable-ID| Treatable-ID Information about the diagnosis and treatment of 81 treatable rare diseases that cause intellectual disability. Informational app about the diagnosis and treatment of 81 rare diseases which cause intellectual disabilitydiseases that, if diagnosed, can be treatable. Designed for healthcare professionals, but of value to interested patients who wish to know more about the 81 featured medical conditions. Provides details about the symptoms and other signs suggestive of the 81 conditions, about appropriate diagnostic tests, forms of treatment, plus other relevant facts. Created by the Treatable Intellectual Disability Endeavor in British Columbia, the work of which was published in the Orphanet Journal of Rare Diseases [see review].
Pillboxie| Pillboxie Reminder to take medications on time. Reminder to take medications on time. Claims to be easy to operate because it lets the user visually manage medications. 'iScheduling' a reminder is said to be as easy as dropping a pill into a pillbox.
Diabetes Pal| Diabetes Pal Allows a user with diabetes to trackA1c, blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, food intake, medication, weight, etc. Allows a user with diabetes to track A1c, blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, food intake, medication, weight, etc. Information can be transferred to the 'MyTelcare' website for viewing (https://mytelcare.com/Telserve).
Manage My Pain Lite| Manage My Pain Lite Allows pain to be recorded, tracked and analysed. Pain tracker that allows the user to record instances of experiencing pain. For people with arthritis/rheumatism, cancer, headaches/migraines, fibromyalgia, or other causes of chronic pain. Pain characteristics that can be entered include location, other symptoms, severity, etc. The screen for entering information is customisable. The pain experience can be analysed over time throughcalendars, charts, graphs, and otherstatistics. Records can be stored in the 'cloud' for safe-keeping. Reports can be generated for the purposes of insurance claims, diagnosis or treatment. A 'Pro' version that has to be purchased allows the userto view more than 10 records.The app is constantly evolving and we continue to add new features based on the feedback we receive from practitioners and our advisory team. Details of these reports are here:
BrainyApp| BrainyApp A toolkit to help fight dementia, using changes in lifestyle. BrainyApp' allows users to take a brain-heart health survey about their diet, exercise patterns and lifestyle. It then provides suggestions and ideas about how to make improvements to each and encourages users to build brain-heart points by staying physically and mentally active, socialising with friends and family, and sharing their progress on Facebook.
OATBook| OATBook Aims to help people on oral anticoagulant therapy (OAT) to monitor and control their medication routine. Aims to help people on oral anticoagulant therapy (OAT) to monitor and control their medication routine. Oriented particularly towards patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), deep-vein thrombosis (DVT), or heart-valve replacement. Allows the user to record and check their range within the international normalised ratio (INR), and to be aware of daily dosages. Alert reminders minimise the possibility of missed doses, and a dosage checkbox shows missed dosages. Alternate-day dosages can be added, as can daily notes. Medication totals can be stored. Readings can be communicated to the users clinic.
Diabetes Australia| Diabetes Australia An app that provides general support for living with diabetes as well as helping you find and manage your healthcare services. Diabetes Australia app is a useful resource for manging your diabetes, including meal planning. The app also provides the latest news on diabetes, reciepes and exercise tips. In Australia, you can search for events in your state or territory using the location or map feature. You can also use the app to keep track of your appointments. The services section on the home page gives you easy access to contact details for healthcare professionals. If you are away from home, on holidays or visiting someone, you can use the app to see what services are locally available. Diabetes Australia CEO Prof Greg Johnson said that the technology will enable Australians with diabetes to better self-manage their condition. Now Australian users will be able to access a free and complete healthy living tool to maximise positive health outcomes in the palm of their hand. Its easy to navigate and engage with and access is 24/7, Prof Johnson said.
Asthma Health| Asthma Health A personalised tool that enables people with asthma to gain insight into their asthma, avoid triggers, adhere to treatment plans, and take charge of their health. The Asthma Health app helps people with asthma to:
Voice4u AAC Communication| Voice4u AAC Communication Utilises simple images (for instance, of an individual eating) to help a person with a communicational difficultyexpress wants and needs to a carer. Utilises simple images (for instance, of an individual eating) to help a person with a communicational difficulty express wants and needs to a carer. New icons can be added by the user.
Proloquo4Text| Proloquo4Text Text-oriented alternative communication tool for people who are literate but have difficulty speaking. Text-oriented communication tool that converts text to speech, and speaks on behalf of people who are literate but have difficulty speaking. Word and sentence prediction help the user write messages. Commonly-employed phrases can be saved. Screen layout can be individualised; font colour and size can be adjusted; words and sentences can be highlighted. The app gives access to email and social media. Note that although the app verbalises in 15 languages, the user interface can be set to function in only five of these languages (Dutch,English, French, German, and Spanish).
Seriously Good! Gluten Free Living| Seriously Good! Gluten Free Living 56 coeliac-friendly recipes for people with gluten intolerance (many of the recipes in several serving sizes). 56 coeliac-friendly recipes for people with gluten intolerance (many of the recipes in several serving sizes). UK-based patient group Coeliac UK has certified all of the recipes gluten-free. 60 minutes of high-definition (HD) video guide the user though some of the recipes. The recipes are in metric measurements. The large video files on the app are best downloaded from a wireless network.
Stress Tips| Stress Tips Provides people with more than 40 audio tips from fellow anxiety sufferers on how to manage anxiety and stress. Provides people with more than 40 audio tips from fellow anxiety sufferers on how to manage anxiety and stress. The tips tell how these individuals cope with anxiety and stress. The funder of the app, Anxiety UK, a UK-based patient group specialising in anxiety, plans that the app will in future include relaxation techniques, and the ability to upload personal tips. Now in its eecond iteration.
AgaMatrix Diabetes Manager| AgaMatrix Diabetes Manager Diabetes management log. Diabetes management log. A user manually enters blood-glucose levels, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosage. Trend charts and colour-coded results can be customised for hypo-/hyperglycaemic limits, mealtime schedules, and target ranges, and tags can contextualise readings. Data can be emailed to carers and healthcare professionals. Subjects covered on built-in videos by dLife TV include healthy eating, lifestyle choices, and issues for other people living with diabetes. The app is also complementary to the Wavesense Jazz glucose meter (although the Jazz cannot yet synch with iPhone, a data cable is in development).
DAF Assistant| DAF Assistant Helps people who have a stuttering problem to speak more fluently. Helps people who have a stuttering problem to speak more fluently.
HelpDiabetes| HelpDiabetes Carbohydrate counter with a food database. Carbohydrate counter with a food database. Aims to allow blood-glucose levels to be tracked. The user measures and enters ingredient data, or selects from predefined serving sizes. The app generates a total for carbohydrates, fat, protein and kcal. It can calculate the amount of insulin needed, based on variable carbohydrate-insulin ratios. Also tracks insulin (and other medications), and sport, and other activities. The log is searchable, and meals can be recalled. The food composition database can be added to, and adjusted. Apple version apparently in development.
CareZone| CareZone App to help carers organise all care information in one place CareZone is a long-established app that helps carers to manage in one place all aspects of care.
Glucose Companion Free| Glucose Companion Free Blood-sugar and weight tracker. Blood-sugar and weight tracker. The user can add and edit blood-sugar readings, including weight and test date. Blood sugar and weight can be tracked by chart. Times and percentage of each blood-sugar range can be analysed. Statistics of measurement can be shown by day, week, month, or year. Average blood sugar and weight can be calculated. A reminder for measuring glucose or visiting the doctor can be created. Password protected.
Carb Counting with Lenny| Carb Counting with Lenny Carbohydrate-counting app intended to help children with diabetes gain the skills required to count carbohydrates. Carbohydrate-counting app intended to help children with diabetes gain the skills required to count carbohydrates. A Food guide section informs about the carbohydrate values of food items in a typical household. A user can select items from lists of thumbnail pictures which indicate serving size, and grams of carbohydrates per serving. Favourite foods not listed can be added (the user is required to source and enter the food data). The Games section allows the user to test knowledge of carbohydrate counting through a variety of interactive activities. Online competitions allow the user play against other users (USA only).
Diabetes Pilot| Diabetes Pilot Diabetes management app for anyone with diabetes (whether taking insulin, other medications, or just involved with diet and exercise). Dietary advice and good information is provided. Diabetes management app for anyone with diabetes (whether taking insulin, other medications, or just involved with diet and exercise). The user can input, record and track with contextual tagging blood glucose (mg/dL or mmol/L), blood pressure, exercise activities, meals, medications, weight, and other notes. An integral food database offers nutritional information on thousands of foods, listing calories, carbohydrates, fat, fibre, protein, sodium and other nutrients. For people who take insulin, the app can estimate insulin for meals, and for correcting high blood glucose (based on user input). Also estimates HbA1C, and allows trends in blood sugars to be identified. Data is displayed in a customised graph format, which can be saved to photo albums for reference. Reports can be exported via CSV to spreadsheets, as well as sent to carers and healthcare professionals via email. Secure data can be synchronised with purchasable desktop software by the same developer for backup, editing, and for producing more elaborate reports.
BIG Launcher| BIG Launcher Simplified phone home screen for older people, and for people with visual impairment (and even for anyone who dislikes numerous phone icons). Simplified phone home screen for older people, and for people with visual impairment (and even for anyone who dislikes numerous phone icons). Replaces the common user interface of any Android phone. Designed for readability and ease of use. Large text and large colorful icons help the user to access the phones most important facilities. Controlled by single touches, with no swipes or long presses. Shortcuts and lists give access to apps. Three font sizes allow the screen to be tailored to the users degree of sight disability, while TalkBack, an open-source Android screenreader, offers spoken feedback for blind users.
Dr. McDougall Mobile Cookbook| Dr. McDougall Mobile Cookbook Cookbooklisting healthy foods. Cookbooklisting healthy foods. Contains 875 recipes. Also offers health tips and weight-loss tips, a Meal finder, and a search feature.
Glucose-Charter| Glucose-Charter Diabetes management app for recording and tracking blood glucose, food intake, insulin and medication. Diabetes management app for recording and tracking blood glucose, food intake, insulin and medication. The user is required to fill in basic personal details (such as date of birth, diabetes type, gender, height, and weight). Common diabetes medication (whether branded or generic) can be selected, or Other medications can be created. User-logged data can be customised with contextual notes, which are displayed on colour-coded graphs and summary tables. A food database provides nutritional information, including on carbohydrates, glycaemic index (GI), and glycaemic load (GL),found in categories, or searched for. Data is recorded in a diary format, which can optionally be set to automatically report to carers or healthcare professionals every 30 days. Password protected.
Care4Today Mobile Health Manager and Medication Reminder| Care4Today Mobile Health Manager and Medication Reminder Reminder to take medications on time. A tool that reminds the user to take medications (and health supplements) on time. The 'Care4Family' facility allows the user to check on whether family members are taking their medication as prescribed, and to encourage them to do so. The 'Care4Charity' facility allows donations to be sent to selected NGOs. The app willwork with any service provider or service plan, and on almost any mobile phone (including feature phones, as well as smartphones). It containsphotographs of 20,000-plus medicines (including generics), to help with users' identification of medicines. Graphs on progress at taking medication on time can be shared with healthcare providers or family and friends. An FDA-registered Class 1, 510K-exempt medical device. A European version will be made available later in 2014.
VisionSim by Braille Institute| VisionSim by Braille Institute Relies upon the phone's camera (along with digital filters) to allow a user to experience the symptoms of eye disease, and to see the world through the simulated eyes of a person experiencing one of nine degenerative eye conditions. Relies upon the phone's camera (along with digital filters) to allow a user to experience the symptoms of eye disease, and to see the world through the simulated eyes of a person experiencing one of nine degenerative eye conditions (cataracts, Charles Bonnet syndrome, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, haemonymous hemianopia, retinitis pigmentosa, macular degeneration, macular hemorrhage, and retinal detachment). Also provides information about these eye diseases, including associated visual phenomenon, causes, symptoms, and treatments.
OnTrack Diabetes| OnTrack Diabetes Helps people with diabetes manage their condition by tracking blood glucose, blood pressure (BP), exercise, food, medication, pulse, and weight. Helps people with diabetes manage their condition by tracking blood glucose, blood pressure (BP), exercise, food, medication, pulse, and weight. Produces a variety of graphs and reports, and a log book suitable for sharing with the doctor. Can activate reminders (for example, a reminder to test two hours after eating food).
Patient.co.uk| Patient.co.uk Contains 900-plus patient-information leafletsabout health andspecific medical conditions. Contains 900-plus patient-information leaflets about health and specific medical conditions. The leaflets can be emailed. Allows nearby medical services (including dentists, GPs,hospitals, and pharmacies) to be located. This finder facility is functional in England only.
Bladder Pal| Bladder Pal Tool to track bladder health in both men and women. Tool to track bladder health in both men and women. Contains a Voiding diary to track fluid intake and urinary output. Output can be measured with a container known as a hat, purchasable at a pharmacy. Also provides an American Urological Association (AUA) Symptom score (a questionnaire designed to help a user, in conjunction with a doctor, assess urinary symptoms and response to therapy). The app listsmeasurementsin cubic centimetres (CC), not millilitres (ml).
CalorieKing Australia Food Search| CalorieKing Australia Food Search Allows the calorie, carbohydrate, fat, and kilojoule content of foods to be checked. Allows the calorie, carbohydrate, fat, and kilojoule content of foods to be checked. Lists over 22,000 foods. Tapping on a specific food shows more detailed information about its content, including: alcohol, cholesterol, fibre, saturated fat, sodium, and trans fat.
Reverse the Odds| Reverse the Odds Game that utilises the principle of crowdsourcing to allow the users to help UK-based cancer researchers analyse cells. Game that utilises the principle of crowdsourcing to allow the users to help UK-based cancer researchers analyse cells. The game can be played for a few minutes at a time, or for hours, and contains 350-plus levels of activity. Moving up levelsa challenge that becomes increasingly difficultdepends upon completing tasks of analysis (such as checking the number and colour of cancer cells, and looking for patterns within cancer cells).The more people who play the game, the more valuable the data analysis reaching the cancer researchers.
Splingo| Splingo Interactive game intended to help children learn listening and language skills. Interactive game intended to help children learn listening and language skills. A child user can practise these skills by interacting with the images and animations on the screen, while listening to the spoken instructions. Instructions are clustered in four levels of attainment, and range from early language development, at the age of about 18 months onwards (recognition of single words), to more complex capability, at about the age of four onwards (handling several aspects of language simultaneously). Customisable to the childs level.
Know Your Heart Rhythm| Know Your Heart Rhythm Measures heart rate for people worried about irregular heart rhythm. Enables early warning of an irregular heatbeat by measuring both heart rate and pulse rate. Records heart rate with the iPhone camera to monitor and measure pulse rate. Results can be compared with examples of slow, fast or irregular rhythm. Results can be shared by email, Facebook or Twitter, and saved for later reference (for instance with a doctor).
WaterMinder - Water Hydration Reminder and Tracker| WaterMinder - Water Hydration Reminder and Tracker Helps the user to track how much (or little) water they are drinking. Helps the user to track how much (or little) water they are drinking. Relies on body weight or individual goals to set parameters in fluid ounces or millilitres for optimum water-consumption levels. Custom reminders inform the user to drink water. Current intake is displayed visually in the form of custom-set cup images, while personal history of water consumption is shown in chart form.
Diapp| Diapp Carbohydrate-/meal-logging app and medication calculator. Carbohydrate-/meal-logging app and medication calculator. A user searches through the integrated database of 950-plus entries of food products to find the mealthey would like to reference. Once selected, the entry displays carbohydrates per gram or per ml. The user can request items to be added to the database by contacting the developer directly. The app calculates the correct amount of insulin to be administered (spraying/boluses), based on the meals selected.
AskSARA| AskSARA Provides information on how older people, and people with a disability, can find solutions to a wide range of activities in the home that might present them with problems. Provides information on how older people, and people with a disability, can find solutions to a wide range of activities in the home that might present them with problems. A user chooses a section (such as Vision), and, after answering a set of questions, receives a report containing advice.
Blackouts Checkapp| Blackouts Checkapp Assesses whether a user might be at risk of blackouts. Assesses whether a user might be at risk of blackouts. Developed for people with epilepsy, psychological problems, or syncope (and also intended for use by their family members or carers, or by medical professionals). After the user has answered a checklist of questions related to blackout, the app awards a red or green flag, depending on whether the user seems at high risk of blackouts, or is more likely to experience blackouts only of a simple, harmless type.
TapToTalk| TapToTalk Allows a user with limited communication skills to express themselves by selecting a library image, which the app will then read out as a word or sentence. Allows a user with limited communication skills to express themselves by selecting a library image, which the app will then read out as a word or sentence. Customisable images require the purchase of a further facility (called 'TapToTalk Designer').
MoodKit| MoodKit A means by which people with anxiety or depression can improve their mood. Draws on the techniques of cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) to help people with anxiety or depression to improve their mood. An activities tool suggests activities that can enhance a sense of well-being and reduce negative feelings. A thought checker aims to identify and modify negative thoughts. A mood tracker allows estimates of mood to be recorded and ranked (mood ratings displayed in daily, 7-day or 30-day charts). Notes about moods can be input on the PIN-protected journal facility. Templates guide the user into making journal entries most likely to improve mood. Voice entry is possible on Siri-enabled devices. Journal entries and mood ratings can be emailed to medical professionals.
NeuroMind| NeuroMind App about the subjects of neurology and neurosurgery. App about the subjects of neurology and neurosurgery. Primarily directed at healthcare professionals, but also of some value to interested patients. Anatomical pictures help to make the topic of neurosurgery more accessible to patients.
ShopWell - Diet and Food Scanner| ShopWell - Diet and Food Scanner Food scanner that seeks to match healthy ingredients with an individuals personal dietary requirements. Food scanner that seeks to match healthy ingredients with the users personal dietary needs. The user inputs age, gender, dietary requirements, health goals, and preferences in ingredients and types of nutrition. The app is then able to identify which scanned foods are more suited to a persons taste and health needs. Simplifies the scores for suitability that it awards foods into three colours: red (unsuitable, unhealthy, best avoided); yellow (might be suitable for consumption); green (healthy and suitable for the users diet). Identifies food that should not be eaten by people with a food allergy, such as nut allergy, milk allergy, wheat allergy, etc (choice of approximately 17 types of food allergies). Useful for people with anaemia, diabetes, coeliac disease, gluten intolerance, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, lactose intolerance, and osteoporosis.
Coeliac UK  Gluten-free on the move| Coeliac UK  Gluten-free on the move The app will help you manage every element of your gluten-free diet, whether it's shopping for food or finding somewhere to eat out. The app will help you manage every element of your gluten-free diet, whether it's shopping for food or finding somewhere to eat out.The app includes access to the Food and Drink Directory and you can scan items as you shop to see if they are suitable for your gluten-free diet and listed in our (Coeliac UK) Directory, search through the additions and deletions in real time, use the Gluten-free Checklist to help you search through a product's ingredients list and more.The Venue Guide will use the location services on your phone so you can search for venues where you are. You can see which venues we've accredited too, so you know who has worked with us. (Though the numbers of venues listed is limited, according to a number of comments about the app on Facebook.)There is also a wealth of other information on the app including a Label Guide, Eating Out tips and news from Coeliac UK.
Speak it! Text to Speech| Speak it! Text to Speech Vocalises the written content of documents, emails, PDF files, web pages, etc, that the user has copied and pasted into the app, and converts text into speech. Vocalises the written content of documents, emails, PDF files, web pages, etc, that the user has copied and pasted into the app, and converts text into speech. Voices available include American male, American female, British male, British female, and others. Audio files can be created, and emailed. The volume and speed of the speech can be changed, as well as the font size of the text field. Phrases can be saved and repeated. The Saved phrases section has a search bar.
RENAL TRKRR| RENAL TRKRR Helps people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) to record, track, and share their vital renal-health information. Helps people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) to record, track, and share their vital renal-health information. Contains a food log (Diet trkrr), a medication log (Medication trkrr), and a log of lab test results (Test trkrr). A graphing system allows the user to see and track trends in personal nutritional and renal data. Reminders can be set. Important information can be emailed to a doctor.
Froogie| Froogie A family-focused app that aims to engage children and parents and help them make healthy food choices The app was developed by the patient organisation, the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada with the Canadian Institute of Health Research and the Dalhousie Healthy Populations Institute (HPI).
BreastAware| BreastAware Information on how to check breasts, and on lifestyle choices for decreasing the risk of breast cancer. Information on how to check breasts, and on lifestyle choices for decreasing the risk of breast cancer. Issues reminders to attend screening.
Med Minder| Med Minder Reminds the user when to take medication, and the correct doses. Reminds the user when to take medication, and the correct doses. Also offers reminders of impending prescription refill requests that need to be made. The paying version contains no advertisements, allows alarm sounds to be selected, and has a backup/restore facility.
FoodSwitch New Zealand| FoodSwitch New Zealand Scans the barcodes of supermarket food; supplies nutritional information, and suggests healthier alternatives. Uses the smartphones camera (autofocus camera lenses required) to scan the barcodes of supermarket food. Rates each food item for its contents of four criteria (total fat; saturated fat; salt; sugar) on a simple traffic-light colour-coded scale (red for high, amber for moderate, and green for low). Suggests healthier alternatives after searching a database of foods created by researchers. Favourite foods can be saved as personalised shopping lists. The lists can be emailed to family or friends, or shared via Facebook or Twitter. The app is only available in three countries: the Australian version can show nutritional information for 38,000 products; this, the New Zealand version, for more than 8,000 products in New Zealand; and the UK version, for more than 90,000 products. Especially useful for people with coeliac disease or gluten intolerance, high blood pressure, heart disease, or kidney disease.
CareTRx| CareTRx Designed to simplify chronic respiratory disease management, connecting patients and caregivers through remote monitoring and real-time adherence tools. In some cases access to the app may only be possible through a healthcare provider. The app has four facilities: Track & Record: track and record different asthma and COPD medications, symptoms, triggers, peak flow measurements, and flare-ups in one place; Get Feedback: view stats and trends over time, and get tailored feedback based on medication use and daily events; Achieve Goals, receive real-time notifications and earn motivational badges for achieving goals; Invite & Share: invite and work together with family members, and share summary reports with care team.
Find Me Gluten Free| Find Me Gluten Free Lists gluten-free restaurants, fast-food stores, chain stores, pizzerias, bakeries, etc. Lists gluten-free restaurants, fast-food stores, chain stores, pizzerias, bakeries, etc (in the USA only). Rates establishments by price and by the reviews left by other users. Shows the menus available at the locations. Gives directions and maps of the eateries, and allows bookings to be phoned through from the app.
Journals of the American Diabetes Association| Journals of the American Diabetes Association Allows immediate access to articles in four American Diabetes Association (ADA) journals: Diabetes, Diabetes Care, Diabetes Spectrum, and Clinical Diabetes. Allows immediate access to articles in four American Diabetes Association (ADA) journals: Diabetes, Diabetes Care, Diabetes Spectrum, and Clinical Diabetes. Aims to help people keep up with the latest information on diabetes care, education, research, and treatment. Non-subscribers to the four journals canaccess current abstracts and full-text articles older than six months; subscribers can see the latest full text. Articles can be bookmarked, and full-text articles saved indefinitely. Android version apparently planned.
Bribespot| Bribespot Allows the user to track and anonymously report examples of bribery. The app has a special category focusing on bribery in healthcare worldwide. Allows the user to track and anonymously report examples of bribery that they experience. Bribes reported by other anonymous users can be shown on a map or in lists, filtered by category, location, or recency. Tips on the reporting of bribes are supplied. The app's employment of
NHS Health and Symptom Checker| NHS Health and Symptom Checker Allows the user to check personal medical symptoms, and, if necessary,receivetelephone advicefrom a call operative within an hour. Allows the user to check their own medical symptoms (or those of a person for whom they are caring). Symptoms can be identified by working through and selecting froma range of choices andquestions. Advice on what to do next will be provided (whether seeking further medical care from a medical professional or hospital, or carrying out a regime of self care).If self care is recommended,the app will provide instructions on how to do so. The advice will saved on the device to be used if needed again. People withsymptoms that indicate the need for professional help will receive a phone call from a health-service operative within an hour (and the user can also choose to make such a phone call themselves at no cost). The app is designed to be operated by users based in England only.
Open Drug Discovery Teams| Open Drug Discovery Teams Brings a magazine-style interface toinformation about research into cures forrarer,more-neglected, diseases. Brings a magazine-style interface to information about research into cures for rarer, more-neglected, diseases. The information is provided by Open Drug Discovery Teams (ODDT), a crowd-sourced content aggregator. Mainly aimed at researchers, but a potential information source for interested patients, too.
5 things to do before I die| 5 things to do before I die Interactive app on Facebook, intended to raise awareness of end-of-life issues. Interactive app on Facebook, intended to raise awareness of end-of-life issues. Allows users to create a list of the activities that they would most like to do during their lives. The app offers five categories of activity: People Id like to meet; Places I'd like to visit; What Id like to learn; What Id like to start; and How Id like to be remembered. The list can be placed on the users wall for sharing with friends. Users can vote for their favourite lists made by other people. Once the five categories have been uploaded, users receive a message outlining five actions they should take before they die (including making a funeral plan; sharing end-of-life plans with loved ones; and writing a will). Requires Facebook log in.
Clinical Trial Seek| Clinical Trial Seek Searches theNational Institutes of Health clinicaltrials.gov database for cancer clinical trials. Searches theNational Institutes of Health (NIH) clinicaltrials.gov database for clinical trials suitable for people with cancer. Searching by location allows people to find trials in their own geographic area. Searches can be refined by cancer type, by treatment, by the phase of the trial, by the trial sponsor, by entry qualifications, or both other factors. Search results can be saved, and emailed. The app also offers background information about clinical trials. For clinical trials in the USA only.
Calico (Global)| Calico (Global) Allows cycle rides, runs, and walks to be tracked. Allows cycle rides, runs and walks to be tracked, with the aim of improving health and fitness. Exercise goals and calorie-burning targets can be set. GPS maps show location. The amount of calories being expended, and distance and speed can all be monitored. Music can be listened to while exercising, and photographs taken. Graphs and statistics show exercise history. Data can be stored in the 'cloud', and workouts shared on Facebook and Twitter. Badges earned display progress.
SkinVision| SkinVision Skin-cancer prevention tool that provides an on-the-spot risk assessment. Skin-cancer prevention tool that provides an on-the-spot risk assessment. A user photographs the potential mole with the phones camera. The app (which previously was called Skin Scan) then relies on an algorithm to calculate the dimension of the mole and surrounding skin, and builds a structural map of the growth patterns of the different tissues involved. By processing the map, the app is able to assess whether the mole shows abnormal development. If so, it alerts the user to book a medical appointment. Moles are classified high risk, medium risk, or low risk. Results can be archived to track development.
FRAX| FRAX A tool to help people at risk of osteoporosis to calculate their bone fragility. A tool to help people at risk of osteoporosis to calculate their bone fragility.
Proloquo2Go| Proloquo2Go Alternative communication solution for people who have difficulty speaking. Alternative communication solution for people who have difficulty speaking. Allows a user to access the most frequently-used words in English, along with fringe vocabulary. Contains a high-resolution library of over 14,000 symbols. Provides natural-sounding text-to-speech childrens voices. Comes with two pre-programmed organisations of vocabulary, which can be customised according to individual speaking ability (from new communicators who are at the one- or two-word level, to full literacy). Frequently-used words can be reached quickly, while less frequently-used words remain accessible without hindering the task of finding the words needed more often. Intended for children or adults with ALS, apraxia, autism, cerebral palsy, developmental disabilities, Downs syndrome, stroke, or traumatic brain injury. French- and Spanish-language versions due at a later date.
Moodometer| Moodometer Interactive mood diary for monitoring and understanding emotional wellbeing. Interactive mood diary for monitoring and understanding emotional wellbeing. Moods can be rated and recorded as often as the user wishes, and tracked on a 90-day graph. A reminder system encourages regular review of moods. A diary allows comments to be added to the information saved. An 'influence' category offers suggestions on factors that might be affecting the user's mood. Tips and guidance are given, based on the influences recorded. Residents of the county of Gloucestershire, England, can receive information about local mental-health support services.
Libra - Weight Manager| Libra - Weight Manager Allows users to track their weight with a trend line recommended by the Hackers diet. Allows users to track their weight with a trend line recommended by the Hackers diet. Contains a scrollable, zoomable chart; BMI; weight goal; estimate of time to goal; daily kcal estimate; other statistics; and Withings real-time push notifications.
HemaGo| HemaGo Tool for recording and tracking the symptoms, treatment and experience of living with haemophilia. Diary tool for recording and tracking the symptoms, treatment, and experience of living with haemophilia. The user can record key data about bleeds (including the duration, frequency and location), and track the consumption of factor. Details about how haemophilia affects daily personal life can be added. Recorded information is collated into reports, which can be shared with the users doctor. Reminders can be created for appointments or treatment times. Users can link their diary data with their other medical records on the national database of bleeding disorder treatment information run by the American Thrombosis and Hemostasis Network (ATHN). Users must be registered with the HemaGo programme, Changing Possibilities in Hemophilia [http://www.changingpossibilities-us.com/hemago/faq.aspx]. The app is applicable in the USA only.
My Psoriasis (MyPso) App| My Psoriasis (MyPso) App A tracker for people with psoriasis. Released in 2015, the MyPso app helps people with psoriasis track their conditions, recording symptoms and severity as and when they happen. From there,  the tracker allows individuals to determine what factors caused their flare ups, from cold weather to a night out on the town. This helps psoriasis sufferers remember exactly when and how their psoriasis flared up. A photo tool lets people snap an image of their psoriasis lesions directly from the MyPso app, and they can use a 'Report Generator' to send their doctors a comprehensive snapshot of their images and symptom/trigger history.
Dragon Search| Dragon Search Speech-recognition app that allows the user to conduct Internet searches on the phone through voice commands. Speech-recognition app that allows the user to conduct Internet searches on the phone through voice commands. A horizontal tool bar enables the user to quickly switch to alternative search sites. Search queries can be modified by a list of alternative suggestions.
NFL Play 60| NFL Play 60 Game encouraging 9-11 year olds to do more exercise, running and jumping to lead a character through different challenges on screen. Requires some space, supervision and safety precautions, as the young person moves with the device in their hands.
uMotif| uMotif App for people with Parkinson's disease; medication reminder andtracker of symptoms and well-being. App to help people manage numerous chronic conditions such as Cancers, Cardiovascular disease, Parkinson's disease, Diabetes, Rheumatology. Allows the user to track their health in the manner that they want to - symptoms and general well-being. Offers reminders of the time to take medication, health diary function and condition specific information. Users can link wearable devices and measure how daily activity affects symptoms. Provides cognitive testing games intended to provide feedback on brain function. Results can be shared with healthcare professionals. Partnerships with 12 NHS trusts and numerous academic research institutions; two citizen science projects ongoing in Parkinson's (
Cook & Count| Cook & Count Contains nutritional information on calories, fat, protein, fibre and sugars, as well as carbohydrate. Cook & Count is recommended by dietitians, nutritionists and specialist diabetes dietitians, nurses and educators. Users can build and save recipes in their own digital recipe book, follow our tried and tested recipe ideas, and share recipes with friends and family - all including thorough nutritional information.
Fooducate| Fooducate Provides nutritional information on foods, with the aim of helping a user with diabetes to lose weight, and to managediet. Provides nutritional information on foods, with the aim of helping a user with diabetes to lose weight, and to managediet. The app relies on the smartphones camera to scan food-product bar codes. Products are graded according to nutritional value. Other details shown about each product include: serving sizes; percentage value of daily calorie intake; and levels of fat (trans- and saturated), cholesterol and sodium. Products can also be searched-for manually in the apps database of 200,000-plus foods. Information that can be shared with the app community for wider analysis includes: the users feedback on (or rankings of) products; personal suggestions for healthier alternatives; shopping lists created on the app; and designated new products.
Lockitron| Lockitron Allows a door (when fitted with a Lockitron lock) to be unlocked without the need for a key. Allows a door (when fitted with a Lockitron lock) to be unlocked without the need for a key. Family, friends, or other visitors can be allowed temporary or regular access. The door can be locked or unlocked from anywhere in the world via the Internet. Aknock sensor detects a visitors knock on the door, and alerts the user. The lock sends a notification when its batteries start running low. People without smartphones can access the Lockitron lock by sending a text message. Of value to people with a disability of movement problem. Note that, to function, the app requires the purchase of a Lockitron lock.
Propeller Health| Propeller Health When used with a matching bluetooth inhaler sensor, records usage of reliever inhaler by people living with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In 2015 the app obtained U.S. Food and Drug Administration 510(k) clearance to market its Propeller platform in association with medications using GlaxoSmithKline's Diskus dry powder inhaler (DPI) device for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and Boehringer Ingelheim's Respimat inhaler for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). When used with a matching bluetooth inhaler sensor that sits on top of an asthma reliever inhaler, the app records usage of the inhaler. Thesensor wirelessly syncs with the user's smartphone. The app collects data about where and when puffs are taken from the inhaler, pinpointing location by GPS, and the app automatically creates an 'asthma diary' for the user. The information can help people with asthma (and their doctors) track their asthma symptoms, and identify when their asthma is not under control. The bluetooth sensor isonly available to patients in the USA who are signed up via their health plan, or care provider. The sensor and the app software
HealthTap| HealthTap Offers answers to healthcare-related questions, according to condition, health concern, medication or symptom. Offers answers to healthcare-related questions, according to condition, health concern, medication or symptom. Lists previously-answered questions. One of the apps facilities is only of value in the United States: the app lists healthcare providers in that country, and allows patients to make appointments with doctors, and ask questions of doctors for a fee.
RheumaBuddy| RheumaBuddy By tracking RA symptoms day-to-day, RheumaBuddy is meant to help youdiscover patterns and then figure out what you can do to influence the disease in a more positive direction yoursel, and thereby gain a greater control of your RA. Combining personal tracking/diary with a community of peers that can help on a bad day. Additionally data can be shared with the rheumatologist. In the future, he developer hopes to integrate the app directly with physicians systems.
CareMonkey| CareMonkey Allows a carer to track the contents of a person's medical records. Allows a person's medical records to be shared among people who may be caring for that person on an occasional basis (including family and friends, games coaches, older siblings, teachers, etc).
Everyday Skills| Everyday Skills Utilises images to teach social skills that can help a person function independently in the community (including how to prepare a meal, take care of pets, travel around, and behave in shops). Utilises images to teach social skills that can help a person function independently in the community (including how to prepare a meal, take care of pets, travel around, and behave in shops).
CPtoys| CPtoys Identifies toys as being potentially suitable for children with cerebral palsy (CP). Identifies a list of toys, each of which is potentially suitable to be matched to the ability level and age of children with cerebral palsy (CP). The aim is to provide the child with toys and activities that are goal-directed for upper-limb therapy, and can help the childacquire new motor skills and learning. In addition, the app offersindividual upper-limb therapy programmes for children with cerebral palsy. Many of the toys listed by the app are available across the world, but all can be found in Australia (prices of designated toys are in Australian dollars). The app is only available on iphone and ipad.
Child Feeding Guide| Child Feeding Guide A resource designed for parents and caregivers who want to understand why their child is 'fussy' and what they can do to improve mealtimes. The app provides education on common feeding pitfalls, including why a behaviour is occuring. The app explains what to do with tools to help. Parents can track their child's eating behaviour, but also their own well-being. The app also represents a preventative resource, that can be used before weaning to educate parents on children's developmentally predictable responses to food, before problems occur. The developers, a group of academics from Loughborough University all of whom are mothers, hope the app may be a better medium to reach less engaged families/parents, than having them come and visit their health visitor.
Cancer.net Mobile| Cancer.net Mobile Patient information on cancer and treatments from the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Cancer.Net Mobile covers more than 120 types of cancer, with information about treatment as well as living with cancer. Helps keep track of questions to ask doctors. Store your own detailed information on prescribed medications, including photos of labels and bottles. Track the time and severity of symptoms and side effects. A section featuring the latest videos, podcasts, and Cancer.Net Feature Articles.
RNIB Navigator| RNIB Navigator App to help visually-impaired people to navigate step by step following voiced guidance. The app was designed by a team of visually-impaired developers, and introduced to the UK by the RNIB, Royal National Institute of Blind People.
SUAS - Supporting and Understanding Ankylosing Spondylitis| SUAS - Supporting and Understanding Ankylosing Spondylitis Provides information about ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and helps a person track progress in coping with the condition. Provides information about living with ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and helps a person be aware of progress in coping with the condition. Supplies facts about the condition and its symptoms, plus the available treatment options. Information on posture, and on managing fatigue, flares, and sleep, are supplied. The user is taken through a Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI) test, and assessed for degree of functional limitation. Progress over time can be logged through graphs. A set of videos created under the supervision of Waterford Regional Hospital, Ireland, demonstrate exercises that aim to improve the physical functionality of people with AS. The videos can be rated by the user for usefulness, and specified as favourites. Information is also given about managing the condition when in education, training or employment.
PTSD Coach| PTSD Coach App designed to help people with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder to manage their condition. They can learn about PTSD, how to help the friend or family member with the condition to manage their symptoms and identify support resources.
FoodSwitch UK| FoodSwitch UK App designed to help people with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder to manage their condition. Uses the smartphones camera (autofocus camera lenses required) to scan the barcodes of supermarket food. Rates each food item for its contents of four criteria (total fat; saturated fat; salt; sugar) on a simple traffic-light colour-coded scale (red for high, amber for moderate, and green for low). Suggests healthier alternatives after searching a database of foods created by researchers. Favourite foods can be saved as personalised shopping lists. The lists can be emailed to family or friends, or shared via Facebook or Twitter. The app is only available in three countries: the Australian version can show nutritional information for 38,000 products; the New Zealand version, for more than 8,000 products in New Zealand; and this, the UK version, for more than 90,000 products. Especially useful for people with coeliac disease or gluten intolerance, high blood pressure, heart disease, or kidney disease.
UMSkinCheck| UMSkinCheck Allows a user to check for skin cancer by conducting self examination. Allows a user to check for skin cancer by conducting self examination. Helps to identify moles or lesions that may be cancerous, or growths that may develop into skin cancer (precancers). Users fill out a melanoma-risk calculator, and complete a full skin-cancer self examination and photo survey, create a body photographic library, and a history of moles and lesions, track them, and receive regular reminders to perform follow-up self examinations, and to keep monitoring tracked lesions. Also contains informational videos.
LookTel Money Reader| LookTel Money Reader Recognises currency, and speaks the denomination, enabling people with a visual impairment or blindness to identify and count banknotes. Recognises currency, and speaks the denomination, enabling people with a visual impairment or blindness to identify and count banknotes. A user points the phones camera at a banknote, and (without having to hold the phone still, or take a photo), the apps object-recognition technology recognises the currency instantly. At least five currencies can be recognised: Australian Dollar; British Pound; Canadian Dollar; Euro; and US Dollar. Should not be used to try to detect counterfeit currency. Needs adequate lighting (the app notifies the user if the lighting level is too poor).
PD Me Tools| PD Me Tools App helping people with Parkinsons Disease to monitor changes in their symptoms and effects of medication. PD Me Tools (Parkinson Disease Measurement Tools) enables people with Parkinsons disease to:
Workout Trainer| Workout Trainer Exercise instructor and fitness-activity planner. Exercise instructor and fitness-activity planner. The integrated database contains over 1,000 workout exercises that include running, weight lifting, weight loss activities, and yoga. A user is coached through sessions via audio instruction by personal trainers. Each workout session contains a timer, step-by-step photographs, video instruction, and the user can choose to play music of their own in place of audio instruction. Workouts can be scheduled, with customised accompanying alerts indicating when a workout should start. Specific exercises can be searched for, or reached by browsing general areas of interest. Custom exercises can be created in the apps multimedia and audio library. All workouts can be shared via email, Facebook and Twitter.
FitDay Mobile| FitDay Mobile Diet and weight-loss journal that offers an online account to track food consumption and exercise levels. Diet and weight-loss journal that offers an online account to track food consumption and exercise levels. Progress can be charted daily, weekly, or monthly. The journal can be analysed over the long term. Custom foods can be created.
The eAcademy for Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff Disease| The eAcademy for Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff Disease App sharing parent and carer experience of caring for children with Tay-Sachs or Sandhoff disease. In 2014 The Cure & Action for Tay-Sachs (CATS) Foundation was a winner of the Sanofi-Genzyme Patient Advocacy Leadership (PAL) Awards. The charity was awarded a grant of $15,000 to create an app for smartphones and tablets.
My Medication Passport| My Medication Passport Allows details of prescribed medicines to be kept. Allows people to record the details of the medicines they are prescribed. Name of medicine, date of prescription, method of administration, strength, quantity, and times to be taken can all be noted. Aids to compliance (such as easy-access lids) can be mentioned. The app will query any changes made to medication. Saved information can be arranged by date or by medication, to allow a doctor, pharmacist or carer to learn about changes to medication history. Information is stored in the phone, and not sent elsewhere by Internet. A password is optional for the user.
AlcoDroid Alcohol Tracker| AlcoDroid Alcohol Tracker Alcohol consumption tracker and drinks diary intended to help a user change drinking habits. Alcohol consumption tracker and drinks diary intended to help a user change drinking habits. Drinking habits can be charted daily, weekly or monthly, with alcohol consumption statistics exported across the same time frames. A Drink presets facility allows drinks to be logged quickly. A maximum drinks level can be set. The app estimates blood-alcohol content (BAC) based on drinks logged, plots BAC development in a chart, and indicates when the legal limit (or zero) will be reached. Functions in metric, imperial and US units. Alcohol intake can be displayed per day or week, in grams, millilitres, or standard units (AU, CA, UK, US).
Orphanet, the mobile portal for rare diseases| Orphanet, the mobile portal for rare diseases List containing information about rare diseases. List containing information about rare diseases.
Dexteria| Dexteria App to improve fine motor skills as part recovering from injury or stroke, or for learning development skills. Dexteria turns your iOS device into a therapeutic tool that improves fine motor skills and handwriting readiness in children and adults.
Plague Inc.| Plague Inc. Game in which the user attempts to infect the world's population with viruses. Game in which the user attempts to infect the world's population with viruses, bacteria and other infectious agents. A choice of a number of a diseases to wield in over 50 countries.Recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as a a tool to teach the public about outbreaks and disease transmission [see, for instance: http://blogs.cdc.gov/publichealthmatters/2013/04/plague-inc/].
AliveCorECG| AliveCorECG The AliveCor Heart Monitor: Mobile ECG device that,provides individuals with the ability to track heart health anywhere, anytime at an affordable cost. The AliveCor Heart Monitor: Mobile ECG device that,provides individuals with the ability to track heart health anywhere, anytime at an affordable cost. The app is FDA approved and CE certified, meaning that it complies with EU legislation.
EndoGoddess| EndoGoddess Diabetes-management journal for recording and tracking blood-glucose levels, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosages - with reminders when to test your blood glucose Diabetes-management journal for recording and tracking blood-glucose levels, carbohydrate intake, and insulin dosages. Pre-programmed time-slot reminders to record data can be set, as well as reminders to log appointments with healthcare professionals. A note-taking function allows to-dos to be added in the timeline section. The educational section offers information and server-generated tips on diabetes medication, exercising, insulin, and recipes. The Get involved section contains details about diabetes associations and camps (relevant in the US only), and on access to relevant social media. Points are awarded to the user each time data is logged (with the intention that responsible loggers can claim items at a future date from the iTunes store).
